v4.0.3	CONSENSUS ASSESSMENTS INITIATIVE QUESTIONNAIRE v4.0.3										
Question ID	Question	CSP CAIQ Answer	SSRM Control Ownership	CSP Implementation Description (Optional/Recommended)	CSC Responsibilities  (Optional/Recommended)			CCM Control ID	CCM Control Specification	CCM Control Title	CCM Domain Title
A&A-01.1	"Are audit and assurance policies, procedures, and standards established, documented,
approved, communicated, applied, evaluated, and maintained?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	"Instructure's security program is managed by our Chief Information Security and Privacy Officer (CISPO), who has ultimate responsibility for managing the program, signing policy, and ensuring its ongoing improvement. Underneath the CISPO, Instructure's security team are talented, skilled, and experienced information security professionals. They are responsible for establishing strong security practices throughout Instructure via governance, risk management, policy, education, security engineering, security compliance, security operations, and application security.

Instructures policies and standards are made available to employees where required, and are referenced in annual security and awareness training. 

Instructure's information security policies and standards are based on information security best practices as set forth by the International Organization for Standardization's (ISO) 27000 suite of standards, NIST's 800-53 suite of controls, and the AICPA's Trust Service Principles and Criteria. Instructure holds SOC 2 Type II reports, TX-RAMP Certifications, ISO 27001 certification, and CyberEssentials+ certification."				A&A-01	"Establish, document, approve, communicate, apply, evaluate and maintain
audit and assurance policies and procedures and standards. Review and update
the policies and procedures at least annually.
"	Audit and Assurance Policy and Procedures	Audit & Assurance
A&A-01.2	"Are audit and assurance policies, procedures, and standards reviewed and updated
at least annually?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	"All Instructure policies, procedures and standards are reviewed by relevant stakeholders and updated at least annually."							
A&A-02.1	"Are independent audit and assurance assessments conducted according to relevant
standards at least annually?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	Instructure's information security policies and standards are independently audited annually on both the International Organization for Standardization's (ISO) 27000 suite of standards and the AICPA's Trust Service Principles and Criteria (SOC 2 Type II).				A&A-02	"Conduct independent audit and assurance assessments according to
relevant standards at least annually.
"	Independent Assessments	
A&A-03.1	"Are independent audit and assurance assessments performed according to risk-based
plans and policies?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	"Instructure's annual independent audits and assurance assessments flow into our ongoing risk assessment process which identify any major risks to our services. The process includes performing risk assessments to identify impactful risks, identifying appropriate controls to mitigate risks to an appropriate level, monitoring controls for effectiveness at mitigating risks, and improving the ability to mitigate risks. Internal risk audits involve a number of stakeholders including our Security Team, Engineering Team, and the Executive Leadership Team."				A&A-03	"Perform independent audit and assurance assessments according to
risk-based plans and policies.
"	Risk Based Planning Assessment	
A&A-04.1	"Is compliance verified regarding all relevant standards, regulations, legal/contractual,
and statutory requirements applicable to the audit?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	"Instructure is audited annually by an independent auditor and holds a number of SOC-2 Type II reports for its products. Instructure is also ISO 27001:2013 certified. Our SOC 2 reports are available for review upon execution of a Non-Disclosure Agreement.
 
 As a public company, Instructure (NYSE:INST) is subject to the US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Legal proceedings are included in our annual report (10K), which can be found on our website at: https://ir.instructure.com"				A&A-04	"Verify compliance with all relevant standards, regulations, legal/contractual,
and statutory requirements applicable to the audit.
"	Requirements Compliance	
A&A-05.1	"Is an audit management process defined and implemented to support audit planning,
risk analysis, security control assessments, conclusions, remediation schedules,
report generation, and reviews of past reports and supporting evidence?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	"Instructure's annual independent audits and assurance assessments flow into our ongoing risk assessment process which identify any major risks to our services. The process includes performing risk assessments to identify impactful risks, identifying appropriate controls to mitigate risks to an appropriate level, monitoring controls for effectiveness at mitigating risks, and improving the ability to mitigate risks. Internal risk audits involve a number of stakeholders including our Security Team, Engineering Team, and the Executive Leadership Team."				A&A-05	"Define and implement an Audit Management process to support audit
planning, risk analysis, security control assessment, conclusion, remediation
schedules, report generation, and review of past reports and supporting evidence.
"	Audit Management Process	
A&A-06.1	"Is a risk-based corrective action plan to remediate audit findings established,
documented, approved, communicated, applied, evaluated, and maintained?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	"On both an ongoing and annual basis, Instructure's Security Team, lead by the Chief Information Security and Privacy Officer (CISPO), perform a risk assessment of Instructure's most valuable assets and critical services."				A&A-06	"Establish, document, approve, communicate, apply, evaluate and maintain
a risk-based corrective action plan to remediate audit findings, review and
report remediation status to relevant stakeholders.
"	Remediation	
A&A-06.2	"Is the remediation status of audit findings reviewed and reported to relevant
stakeholders?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	Instructure's internal assessment findings are reviewed by relevant stakeholders and the Executive Leadership Team.							
AIS-01.1	"Are application security policies and procedures established, documented,
approved, communicated, applied, evaluated, and maintained to guide appropriate
planning, delivery, and support of the organization's application security capabilities?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	"Instructure has a robust information security program that runs on a continuous, PDCA-cycle. It was created based on guidance provided by ISO/IEC 27000:2018 and controls described in ISO/IEC 27001:2013, and is managed by Instructure's Chief Information Security and Privacy Officer (CISPO).
 
Instructure has a software development lifecycle (SDLC) that incorporates secure coding practices and controls. _All code goes through a developer peer-review process before it is merged into the code base repository. The code review includes security auditing based on the Open Web Application Security Project (OWASP) secure coding and code review documents (including the OWASP Top Ten) and other community sources on best security practices."				AIS-01	"Establish, document, approve, communicate, apply, evaluate and maintain
policies and procedures for application security to provide guidance to the
appropriate planning, delivery and support of the organization's application
security capabilities. Review and update the policies and procedures at least
annually.
"	Application and Interface Security Policy and Procedures	Application & Interface Security
AIS-01.2	"Are application security policies and procedures reviewed and updated at least
annually?
"	Yes	CSP-owned								
AIS-02.1	"Are baseline requirements to secure different applications established, documented,
and maintained?
"	Yes	CSP-owned					AIS-02	"Establish, document and maintain baseline requirements for securing
different applications.
"	Application Security Baseline Requirements	
AIS-03.1	"Are technical and operational metrics defined and implemented according to
business objectives, security requirements, and compliance obligations?
"	Yes	CSP-owned					AIS-03	"Define and implement technical and operational metrics in alignment
with business objectives, security requirements, and compliance obligations.
"	Application Security Metrics	
AIS-04.1	"Is an SDLC process defined and implemented for application design, development,
deployment, and operation per organizationally designed security requirements?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	Instructure has a software development lifecycle (SDLC) that incorporates secure coding practices and controls. _All code goes through a developer peer-review process before it is merged into the code base repository. The code review includes security auditing based on the Open Web Application Security Project (OWASP) secure coding and code review documents (including the OWASP Top Ten) and other community sources on best security practices.				AIS-04	"Define and implement a SDLC process for application design, development,
deployment, and operation in accordance with security requirements defined by
the organization.
"	Secure Application Design and Development	
AIS-05.1	"Does the testing strategy outline criteria to accept new information systems,
upgrades, and new versions while ensuring application security, compliance adherence,
and organizational speed of delivery goals?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	"All functional code changes are required to be thoroughly reviewed and tested by one or more engineers other than the author. All code changes are also required to have appropriate automated tests written before the change is accepted, both for new features and bug fixes. 
 
Once new code has passed peer review, the code is incorporated into the code base and submitted to testing and quality assurance. The new code is deployed to a continuous integration server where it is immediately tested. Instructure’s testing team runs the following types of tests: 
 
 _ Unit tests (testing code with code)
 _ Integration tests (testing code with integrations with other code)
 _ Browser tests (testing how code works in the browser) on all the different environments and across different databases.
 "				AIS-05	"Implement a testing strategy, including criteria for acceptance of
new information systems, upgrades and new versions, which provides application
security assurance and maintains compliance while enabling organizational speed
of delivery goals. Automate when applicable and possible.
"	Automated Application Security Testing	
AIS-05.2	"Is testing automated when applicable and possible?
"	Yes	CSP-owned								
AIS-06.1	"Are strategies and capabilities established and implemented to deploy application
code in a secure, standardized, and compliant manner?
"	Yes	CSP-owned					AIS-06	"Establish and implement strategies and capabilities for secure, standardized,
and compliant application deployment. Automate where possible.
"	Automated Secure Application Deployment	
AIS-06.2	"Is the deployment and integration of application code automated where possible?
"	Yes	CSP-owned								
AIS-07.1	"Are application security vulnerabilities remediated following defined processes?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	"Identified vulnerabilities are assessed based on two factors: Impact and Likelihood. They are then rated High, Medium, or Low. For example, if a High security risk is detected that has a near-and-present-danger, fixing the vulnerability is given the highest priority by Instructure's security and engineering teams and security patches as such will be applied within twenty-four (24) hours by best commercial efforts."				AIS-07	"Define and implement a process to remediate application security
vulnerabilities, automating remediation when possible.
"	Application Vulnerability Remediation	
AIS-07.2	"Is the remediation of application security vulnerabilities automated when
possible?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	"Instructure's security team conducts regular vulnerability scans of both our non-public assets and our production environments, using a number of internal and external tools, custom scripts, and monitoring agents to watch for open source libraries and dependancy vulnerabilities."							
BCR-01.1	"Are business continuity management and operational resilience policies and
procedures established, documented, approved, communicated, applied, evaluated,
and maintained?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	"Instructure has a documented Business Continuity/Disaster Recovery plan. These plans are tabletop-tested at least annually, and we frequently test our ability to restore from backup as part of our regular release cycle, as non-production sites are populated from production backups."				BCR-01	"Establish, document, approve, communicate, apply, evaluate and maintain
business continuity management and operational resilience policies and procedures.
Review and update the policies and procedures at least annually.
"	Business Continuity Management Policy and Procedures	Business Continuity Management and Operational Resilience
BCR-01.2	"Are the policies and procedures reviewed and updated at least annually?
"	Yes	CSP-owned								
BCR-02.1	"Are criteria for developing business continuity and operational resiliency
strategies and capabilities established based on business disruption and risk
impacts?
"	Yes	CSP-owned					BCR-02	"Determine the impact of business disruptions and risks to establish
criteria for developing business continuity and operational resilience strategies
and capabilities.
"	Risk Assessment and Impact Analysis	
BCR-03.1	"Are strategies developed to reduce the impact of, withstand, and recover from
business disruptions in accordance with risk appetite?
"	Yes	CSP-owned					BCR-03	"Establish strategies to reduce the impact of, withstand, and recover
from business disruptions within risk appetite.
"	Business Continuity Strategy	
BCR-04.1	"Are operational resilience strategies and capability results incorporated
to establish, document, approve, communicate, apply, evaluate, and maintain a
business continuity plan?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	"Instructure has a Business Continuity and Disaster Recovery plan which is reviewed annually and supported by the Executive Leadership Team, Security Team, and Engineering Team. An overview of the plans are available in our Compliance Packages available at: https://inst.bid/trust"				BCR-04	"Establish, document, approve, communicate, apply, evaluate and maintain
a business continuity plan based on the results of the operational resilience
strategies and capabilities.
"	Business Continuity Planning	
BCR-05.1	"Is relevant documentation developed, identified, and acquired to support business
continuity and operational resilience plans?
"	Yes	CSP-owned					BCR-05	"Develop, identify, and acquire documentation that is relevant to
support the business continuity and operational resilience programs. Make the
documentation available to authorized stakeholders and review periodically.
"	Documentation	
BCR-05.2	"Is business continuity and operational resilience documentation available
to authorized stakeholders?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	An overview of our Business Continuity and Disaster Recovery plan is available at https://inst.bid/trust							
BCR-05.3	"Is business continuity and operational resilience documentation reviewed periodically?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	At least annually.							
BCR-06.1	"Are the business continuity and operational resilience plans exercised and
tested at least annually and when significant changes occur?
"	Yes	CSP-owned					BCR-06	"Exercise and test business continuity and operational resilience
plans at least annually or upon significant changes.
"	Business Continuity Exercises	
BCR-07.1	"Do business continuity and resilience procedures establish communication with
stakeholders and participants?
"	Yes	CSP-owned					BCR-07	"Establish communication with stakeholders and participants in the
course of business continuity and resilience procedures.
"	Communication	
BCR-08.1	"Is cloud data periodically backed up?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	"Customer data is backed-up automatically both in real-time and on a 24-hour schedule to multiple geographic locations within the customer’s region, ensuring the security and reliability of data in the event of a disaster or outage of any scale. Data is backed up from one live database to another, with no additional load on our systems. Static files are stored in secure, geographically redundant storage systems. Recovery backups are encrypted using the AES-GCM 256-bit algorithm and stored within a highly-secured separate location."				BCR-08	"Periodically backup data stored in the cloud. Ensure the confidentiality,
integrity and availability of the backup, and verify data restoration from backup
for resiliency.
"	Backup	
BCR-08.2	"Is the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of backup data ensured?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	"Backups are immutable, encrypted using the AES-GCM 256-bit algorithm, and stored within a highly-secured separate location."							
BCR-08.3	"Can backups be restored appropriately for resiliency?
"	Yes	CSP-owned								
BCR-09.1	"Is a disaster response plan established, documented, approved, applied, evaluated,
and maintained to ensure recovery from natural and man-made disasters?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	An overview of our Business Continuity and Disaster Recovery plan is available at https://inst.bid/trust				BCR-09	"Establish, document, approve, communicate, apply, evaluate and maintain
a disaster response plan to recover from natural and man-made disasters. Update
the plan at least annually or upon significant changes.
"	Disaster Response Plan	
BCR-09.2	"Is the disaster response plan updated at least annually, and when significant
changes occur?
"	Yes	CSP-owned								
BCR-10.1	"Is the disaster response plan exercised annually or when significant changes
occur?
"	Yes	CSP-owned					BCR-10	"Exercise the disaster response plan annually or upon significant
changes, including if possible local emergency authorities.
"	Response Plan Exercise	
BCR-10.2	"Are local emergency authorities included, if possible, in the exercise?
"	No	CSP-owned	"Instructure is a global and majority-remote workforce, and therefore, highly decentralized. We do not involve local emergency authorities during DR testing."							
BCR-11.1	"Is business-critical equipment supplemented with redundant equipment independently
located at a reasonable minimum distance in accordance with applicable industry
standards?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	"Instructure uses multiple AWS regions and Availability Zones (AZ) for business continuity and recovery. Each region has multiple, geographically-separate backup locations. For example, should a disaster occur within a customer's region, they can failover to another Availability Zone within their geographical region since data is near-time replicated across multiple Availability Zones. Static data is also replicated across multiple geographic locations in an AWS region (through AWS S3) and application servers use elastic load balancing (AWS ELB) to ensure that server resources are available and adjust automatically according to current load. In the most extreme scenarios, for example, the complete loss of a customer's hosting region, a disaster recovery process would occur and a customer would be moved to another AWS region for business continuity purposes until such time that their geographical region was made available again."				BCR-11	"Supplement business-critical equipment with redundant equipment independently
located at a reasonable minimum distance in accordance with applicable industry
standards.
"	Equipment Redundancy	
CCC-01.1	"Are risk management policies and procedures associated with changing organizational
assets including applications, systems, infrastructure, configuration, etc., established,
documented, approved, communicated, applied, evaluated and maintained (regardless
of whether asset management is internal or external)?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	Instructure's information security and risk management policies are founded on the guidance provided by the International Organization for Standardization's (ISO) 27000 suite of standards. Instructure is ISO 27001 certified.				CCC-01	"Establish, document, approve, communicate, apply, evaluate and maintain
policies and procedures for managing the risks associated with applying changes
to organization assets, including application, systems, infrastructure, configuration,
etc., regardless of whether the assets are managed internally or externally
(i.e., outsourced). Review and update the policies and procedures at least annually.
"	Change Management Policy and Procedures	Change Control and Configuration Management
CCC-01.2	"Are the policies and procedures reviewed and updated at least annually?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	Instructure's policies and procedures are updated at least annually.							
CCC-02.1	"Is a defined quality change control, approval and testing process (with established
baselines, testing, and release standards) followed?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	"A documented change management process is in place, which is in line with SOC 2 Type II standards. A copy of Instructure's SOC 2 Type II reports are available under mutual NDA."				CCC-02	"Follow a defined quality change control, approval and testing process
with established baselines, testing, and release standards.
"	Quality Testing	
CCC-03.1	"Are risks associated with changing organizational assets (including applications,
systems, infrastructure, configuration, etc.) managed, regardless of whether asset
management occurs internally or externally (i.e., outsourced)?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	"Instructure is conscientious about change management for our customers, and thus we take specific measures to eliminate difficulty through our approach.
 
 A) Instructure applies an Agile methodology with an integrated Quality Assurance (QA) process to the design, development, and maintenance of its products and services. Every day during the three-week cycle, Instructure's engineering team holds a “stand-up” meeting to review progress and discuss any concerns. Engineers write automated unit and integration tests to cover all new code that is written.
 B) All code changes are run through the full QA test suite and appropriately authorized before they can be accepted into the main product. Code changes are closely reviewed and must be peer-approved by other engineering team members before inclusion in the upgrade/update package.
 C) After the three-week development cycle, all changes are deployed to an internal staging server for additional QA testing. Instructure's QA team reviews all associated tickets, uses black-box testing of affected components, and also test standard application workflows. Notes are made on the internal tickets for these changes as needed. Any bugs that are found must be fixed during this QA period, otherwise the change is pulled for further development.
 D) Prior to release to the production environment, all upgrade/update packages are released to a non-production environment (by authorized staff) where the users of our client institutions can test drive and comment on new and changed features and functionality. Preliminary release notes are generated for the upcoming release and made available to all users at https://releases.instructure.com and updated during the QA process. Once the upgrade/update packages are ready for production, only authorized staff can deploy the changes.
 
 For more detail, Instructure's change management policies are outlined in our SOC 2 Type II reports, available for your review upon execution of a Non-Disclosure Agreement."				CCC-03	"Manage the risks associated with applying changes to organization
assets, including application, systems, infrastructure, configuration, etc.,
regardless of whether the assets are managed internally or externally (i.e.,
outsourced).
"	Change Management Technology	
CCC-04.1	"Is the unauthorized addition, removal, update, and management of organization
assets restricted?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	"Access to Instructure's architecture components are secured using AWS’s Key Management Service (KMS), allowing Instructure's Operations team to access encrypted data as needed. Instructure's Operations team controls generation and installation of keys for all employees with access to the servers. An automated configuration management system installs employee public keys on a per-server basis based on need. This same configuration process automatically revokes keys globally when necessary."				CCC-04	"Restrict the unauthorized addition, removal, update, and management
of organization assets.
"	Unauthorized Change Protection	
CCC-05.1	"Are provisions to limit changes that directly impact CSC-owned environments
and require tenants to authorize requests explicitly included within the service
level agreements (SLAs) between CSPs and CSCs?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	Instructure customers are informed of their roles and responsibilities within our master terms and conditions which can be found at: inst.bid/tos				CCC-05	"Include provisions limiting changes directly impacting CSCs owned
environments/tenants to explicitly authorized requests within service level
agreements between CSPs and CSCs.
"	Change Agreements	
CCC-06.1	"Are change management baselines established for all relevant authorized changes
on organizational assets?
"	Yes	CSP-owned					CCC-06	"Establish change management baselines for all relevant authorized
changes on organization assets.
"	Change Management Baseline	
CCC-07.1	"Are detection measures implemented with proactive notification if changes
deviate from established baselines?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	Instructure deploys a configuration management system which monitors for intentional/unintentional file “drift/skew” and will replace a “skewed or drifted” file with a “gold” copy on a regular basis.				CCC-07	"Implement detection measures with proactive notification in case
of changes deviating from the established baseline.
"	Detection of Baseline Deviation	
CCC-08.1	"Is a procedure implemented to manage exceptions, including emergencies, in
the change and configuration process?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	Any exceptions are tracked and logged for resolution.				CCC-08	"'Implement a procedure for the management of exceptions, including
emergencies, in the change and configuration process. Align the procedure with
the requirements of GRC-04: Policy Exception Process.'
"	Exception Management	
CCC-08.2	"'Is the procedure aligned with the requirements of the GRC-04: Policy Exception
Process?'
"	Yes	CSP-owned								
CCC-09.1	"Is a process to proactively roll back changes to a previously known ""good
state"" defined and implemented in case of errors or security concerns?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	Instructure's operations team has the ability to rollback updates in the event of a breaking change or outage.				CCC-09	"Define and implement a process to proactively roll back changes to
a previous known good state in case of errors or security concerns.
"	Change Restoration	
CEK-01.1	"Are cryptography, encryption, and key management policies and procedures established,
documented, approved, communicated, applied, evaluated, and maintained?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	Instructure's Security Team are responsible for the management of encryption and key management policies and procedures. These policies are updated at least annually and approved by relevant stakeholders.				CEK-01	"Establish, document, approve, communicate, apply, evaluate and maintain
policies and procedures for Cryptography, Encryption and Key Management. Review
and update the policies and procedures at least annually.
"	Encryption and Key Management Policy and Procedures	"Cryptography, Encryption & Key Management"
CEK-01.2	"Are cryptography, encryption, and key management policies and procedures reviewed
and updated at least annually?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	At least annually.							
CEK-02.1	"Are cryptography, encryption, and key management roles and responsibilities
defined and implemented?
"	Yes	CSP-owned					CEK-02	"Define and implement cryptographic, encryption and key management
roles and responsibilities.
"	CEK Roles and Responsibilities	
CEK-03.1	"Are data at-rest and in-transit cryptographically protected using cryptographic
libraries certified to approved standards?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	"Inbound and outbound traffic (including through our API) is encrypted using TLS forward-secrecy-compliant SSL cipher suites (e.g. ECDHE-ECDSA-AES128-GCM-SHA256) to ensure that all personally-identifiable information, credentials exchange, page requests, and session data are secure. The acceptable cipher suite list is constantly maintained to ensure that no vulnerabilities are present. Data at rest is encrypted using the AES-GCM 256-bit algorithm."				CEK-03	"Provide cryptographic protection to data at-rest and in-transit,
using cryptographic libraries certified to approved standards.
"	Data Encryption	
CEK-04.1	"Are appropriate data protection encryption algorithms used that consider data
classification, associated risks, and encryption technology usability?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	"Instructure maintains data protection and handling procedures for different data types/classifications based on our Data Classification, Handling, and Encryption Policy. Instructure classifies data considering the associated risks of the data. Encryption and access control protection mechanisms for each data classification are defined within the policy."				CEK-04	"Use encryption algorithms that are appropriate for data protection,
considering the classification of data, associated risks, and usability of the
encryption technology.
"	Encryption Algorithm	
CEK-05.1	"Are standard change management procedures established to review, approve,
implement and communicate cryptography, encryption, and key management technology
changes that accommodate internal and external sources?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	"Instructure maintains data protection and handling procedures for different data types/classifications based on our Data Classification, Handling, and Encryption Policy. For cryptographic Key Management, we ensure:
 
 a. Cryptographic keys are generated and stored in a secure manner that prevents loss, theft, or compromise.
 b. Cryptographic keys are never stored in clear text in code repositories.
 c. Only authorized personnel have access to plaintext cryptographic keys.
 d. User access to cryptographic keys is documented and approved.
 e. User access to cryptographic keys is reviewed quarterly for appropriateness.
 f. Production encryption keys are not used outside of production environments.
 g. Cryptographic keys are replaced if the confidentiality or integrity is suspected of being compromised.
 h. Cryptographic keys are rotated when personnel having plaintext access are terminated.
 i. Cryptographic keys are rotated at least once annually.
 j. All key management activities should be logged and audited to identify misuse."				CEK-05	"Establish a standard change management procedure, to accommodate
changes from internal and external sources, for review, approval, implementation
and communication of cryptographic, encryption and key management technology
changes.
"	Encryption Change Management	
CEK-06.1	"Are changes to cryptography-, encryption- and key management-related systems,
policies, and procedures, managed and adopted in a manner that fully accounts
for downstream effects of proposed changes, including residual risk, cost, and
benefits analysis?
"	Yes	CSP-owned					CEK-06	"Manage and adopt changes to cryptography-, encryption-, and key management-related
systems (including policies and procedures) that fully account for downstream
effects of proposed changes, including residual risk, cost, and benefits analysis.
"	Encryption Change Cost Benefit Analysis	
CEK-07.1	"Is a cryptography, encryption, and key management risk program established
and maintained that includes risk assessment, risk treatment, risk context, monitoring,
and feedback provisions?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	"Cryptography, encryption and key management risk is part of Instructure's Security and Risk Management program."				CEK-07	"Establish and maintain an encryption and key management risk program
that includes provisions for risk assessment, risk treatment, risk context,
monitoring, and feedback.
"	Encryption Risk Management	
CEK-08.1	"Are CSPs providing CSCs with the capacity to manage their own data encryption
keys?
"	No	CSP-owned	"As a multi-tenant Software as a Service platform, Instructure manages tenant encryption keys globally."				CEK-08	"CSPs must provide the capability for CSCs to manage their own data
encryption keys.
"	CSC Key Management Capability	
CEK-09.1	"Are encryption and key management systems, policies, and processes audited
with a frequency proportional to the system's risk exposure, and after any security
event?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	"At least annually, and after a security event."				CEK-09	"Audit encryption and key management systems, policies, and processes
with a frequency that is proportional to the risk exposure of the system with
audit occurring preferably continuously but at least annually and after any
security event(s).
"	Encryption and Key Management Audit	
CEK-09.2	"Are encryption and key management systems, policies, and processes audited
(preferably continuously but at least annually)?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	At least annually.							
CEK-10.1	"Are cryptographic keys generated using industry-accepted and approved cryptographic
libraries that specify algorithm strength and random number generator specifications?
"	Yes	CSP-owned					CEK-10	"Generate Cryptographic keys using industry accepted cryptographic
libraries specifying the algorithm strength and the random number generator
used.
"	Key Generation	
CEK-11.1	"Are private keys provisioned for a unique purpose managed, and is cryptography
secret?
"	Yes	CSP-owned					CEK-11	"Manage cryptographic secret and private keys that are provisioned
for a unique purpose.
"	Key Purpose	
CEK-12.1	"Are cryptographic keys rotated based on a cryptoperiod calculated while considering
information disclosure risks and legal and regulatory requirements?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	Keys are rotated at least annually and can be rapidly rotated if compromised.				CEK-12	"Rotate cryptographic keys in accordance with the calculated cryptoperiod,
which includes provisions for considering the risk of information disclosure
and legal and regulatory requirements.
"	Key Rotation	
CEK-13.1	"Are cryptographic keys revoked and removed before the end of the established
cryptoperiod (when a key is compromised, or an entity is no longer part of the
organization) per defined, implemented, and evaluated processes, procedures, and
technical measures to include legal and regulatory requirement provisions?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	Instructure's Operations team controls generation and installation of keys for all employees. An automated configuration management system installs employee public keys on a per-server basis based on need. This same configuration process automatically revokes keys globally when necessary.				CEK-13	"Define, implement and evaluate processes, procedures and technical
measures to revoke and remove cryptographic keys prior to the end of its established
cryptoperiod, when a key is compromised, or an entity is no longer part of the
organization, which include provisions for legal and regulatory requirements.
"	Key Revocation	
CEK-14.1	"Are processes, procedures and technical measures to destroy unneeded keys
defined, implemented and evaluated to address key destruction outside secure environments,
revocation of keys stored in hardware security modules (HSMs), and include applicable
legal and regulatory requirement provisions?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	Please see CEK-13.1.				CEK-14	"Define, implement and evaluate processes, procedures and technical
measures to destroy keys stored outside a secure environment and revoke keys
stored in Hardware Security Modules (HSMs) when they are no longer needed, which
include provisions for legal and regulatory requirements.
"	Key Destruction	
CEK-15.1	"Are processes, procedures, and technical measures to create keys in a pre-activated
state (i.e., when they have been generated but not authorized for use) being defined,
implemented, and evaluated to include legal and regulatory requirement provisions?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	An automated configuration management system generates and installs employee public keys based on need. This same configuration process automatically revokes keys globally when necessary.				CEK-15	"Define, implement and evaluate processes, procedures and technical
measures to create keys in a pre-activated state when they have been generated
but not authorized for use, which include provisions for legal and regulatory
requirements.
"	Key Activation	
CEK-16.1	"Are processes, procedures, and technical measures to monitor, review and approve
key transitions (e.g., from any state to/from suspension) being defined, implemented,
and evaluated to include legal and regulatory requirement provisions?
"	Yes	CSP-owned					CEK-16	"Define, implement and evaluate processes, procedures and technical
measures to monitor, review and approve key transitions from any state to/from
suspension, which include provisions for legal and regulatory requirements.
"	Key Suspension	
CEK-17.1	"Are processes, procedures, and technical measures to deactivate keys (at the
time of their expiration date) being defined, implemented, and evaluated to include
legal and regulatory requirement provisions?
"	Yes	CSP-owned					CEK-17	"Define, implement and evaluate processes, procedures and technical
measures to deactivate keys at the time of their expiration date, which include
provisions for legal and regulatory requirements.
"	Key Deactivation	
CEK-18.1	"Are processes, procedures, and technical measures to manage archived keys
in a secure repository (requiring least privilege access) being defined, implemented,
and evaluated to include legal and regulatory requirement provisions?
"	Yes	CSP-owned					CEK-18	"Define, implement and evaluate processes, procedures and technical
measures to manage archived keys in a secure repository requiring least privilege
access, which include provisions for legal and regulatory requirements.
"	Key Archival	
CEK-19.1	"Are processes, procedures, and technical measures to use compromised keys to
encrypt information in specific scenarios (e.g., only in controlled circumstances
and thereafter only for data decryption and never for encryption) defined,
implemented, and evaluated to include legal and regulatory requirement provisions?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	"Instructure maintains a Data Classification, Handling, and Encryption Policy which includes approved encryption requirements."				CEK-19	"Define, implement and evaluate processes, procedures and technical
measures to use compromised keys to encrypt information only in controlled circumstance,
and thereafter exclusively for decrypting data and never for encrypting data,
which include provisions for legal and regulatory requirements.
"	Key Compromise	
CEK-20.1	"Are processes, procedures, and technical measures to assess operational continuity
risks (versus the risk of losing control of keying material and exposing protected
data) being defined, implemented, and evaluated to include legal and regulatory
requirement provisions?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	"Instructure maintains a Data Classification, Handling, and Encryption Policy which includes a number of cryptographic key management controls that are regularly reviewed and approved by relevant stakeholders, and take into consideration all legal and regulatory requirements."				CEK-20	"Define, implement and evaluate processes, procedures and technical
measures to assess the risk to operational continuity versus the risk of the
keying material and the information it protects being exposed if control of
the keying material is lost, which include provisions for legal and regulatory
requirements.
"	Key Recovery	
CEK-21.1	"Are key management system processes, procedures, and technical measures being
defined, implemented, and evaluated to track and report all cryptographic materials
and status changes that include legal and regulatory requirements provisions?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	"Instructure maintains a Data Classification, Handling, and Encryption Policy which includes a number of cryptographic key management controls that are regularly reviewed and approved by relevant stakeholders, and take into consideration all legal and regulatory requirements."				CEK-21	"Define, implement and evaluate processes, procedures and technical
measures in order for the key management system to track and report all cryptographic
materials and changes in status, which include provisions for legal and regulatory
requirements.
"	Key Inventory Management	
DCS-01.1	"Are policies and procedures for the secure disposal of equipment used outside
the organization's premises established, documented, approved, communicated, enforced,
and maintained?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	"Instructure maintains a Data Classification, Handling, and Encryption Policy which includes policy on secure data destruction. AWS, our hosting provider, uses the techniques detailed in DoD 5220.22-M (“National Industrial Security Program Operating Manual “) or NIST 800-88 (“Guidelines for Media Sanitization”) to destroy data as part of the decommissioning process. All decommissioned magnetic storage devices are degaussed and physically destroyed in accordance with industry-standard practices."				DCS-01	"Establish, document, approve, communicate, apply, evaluate and maintain
policies and procedures for the secure disposal of equipment used outside the
organization's premises. If the equipment is not physically destroyed a data
destruction procedure that renders recovery of information impossible must be
applied. Review and update the policies and procedures at least annually.
"	Off-Site Equipment Disposal Policy and Procedures	Datacenter Security
DCS-01.2	"Is a data destruction procedure applied that renders information recovery
information impossible if equipment is not physically destroyed?
"	Yes	CSP-owned								
DCS-01.3	"Are policies and procedures for the secure disposal of equipment used outside
the organization's premises reviewed and updated at least annually?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	At least annually.							
DCS-02.1	"Are policies and procedures for the relocation or transfer of hardware, software,
or data/information to an offsite or alternate location established, documented,
approved, communicated, implemented, enforced, maintained?
"	Yes	CSP-owned					DCS-02	"Establish, document, approve, communicate, apply, evaluate and maintain
policies and procedures for the relocation or transfer of hardware, software,
or data/information to an offsite or alternate location. The relocation or transfer
request requires the written or cryptographically verifiable authorization.
Review and update the policies and procedures at least annually.
"	Off-Site Transfer Authorization Policy and Procedures	
DCS-02.2	"Does a relocation or transfer request require written or cryptographically
verifiable authorization?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	"Staff may require the use of portable devices (laptops) or removable media at a customer site and transport or relocate data during the course of a customer implementation using secure and encrypted devices with authentication. All Instructure personnel are required to complete Instructure's Compliance, Privacy, and Security Awareness Training within 30 days of hire as per our employment terms and conditions, and annually thereafter."							
DCS-02.3	"Are policies and procedures for the relocation or transfer of hardware, software,
or data/information to an offsite or alternate location reviewed and updated at
least annually?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	At least annually.							
DCS-03.1	"Are policies and procedures for maintaining a safe and secure working environment
(in offices, rooms, and facilities) established, documented, approved, communicated,
enforced, and maintained?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	"At Instructure's global headquarters and regional offices, where no client data is stored, guests must check in with reception and be escorted by an employee during their visit. We employ electronic key access, physical key access, and video surveillance to secure areas."				DCS-03	"Establish, document, approve, communicate, apply, evaluate and maintain
policies and procedures for maintaining a safe and secure working environment
in offices, rooms, and facilities. Review and update the policies and procedures
at least annually.
"	Secure Area Policy and Procedures	
DCS-03.2	"Are policies and procedures for maintaining safe, secure working environments
(e.g., offices, rooms) reviewed and updated at least annually?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	At least annually.							
DCS-04.1	"Are policies and procedures for the secure transportation of physical media
established, documented, approved, communicated, enforced, evaluated, and maintained?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	"All Instructure personnel are required to complete Instructure's Compliance, Privacy, and Security Awareness Training within 30 days of hire as per our employment terms and conditions, and annually thereafter."				DCS-04	"Establish, document, approve, communicate, apply, evaluate and maintain
policies and procedures for the secure transportation of physical media. Review
and update the policies and procedures at least annually.
"	Secure Media Transportation Policy and Procedures	
DCS-04.2	"Are policies and procedures for the secure transportation of physical media
reviewed and updated at least annually?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	At least anually.							
DCS-05.1	"Is the classification and documentation of physical and logical assets based
on the organizational business risk?
"	Yes	CSP-owned					DCS-05	"Classify and document the physical, and logical assets (e.g., applications)
based on the organizational business risk.
"	Assets Classification	
DCS-06.1	"Are all relevant physical and logical assets at all CSP sites cataloged and
tracked within a secured system?
"	Yes	CSP-owned					DCS-06	"Catalogue and track all relevant physical and logical assets located
at all of the CSP's sites within a secured system.
"	Assets Cataloguing and Tracking	
DCS-07.1	"Are physical security perimeters implemented to safeguard personnel, data,
and information systems?
"	Yes	Shared CSP and 3rd-party	"At our hosting provider, AWS, physical access is strictly controlled both at the perimeter and at building ingress points by professional security staff utilising video surveillance, intrusion detection systems, and other electronic monitoring means. Authorized staff must pass two-factor authentication a minimum of two times to access data center floors. All visitors and contractors are required to present identification and are signed in and continually escorted by authorized staff. All access is time-bound and revoked after the approved time expires, and access to data centres is regularly reviewed and controlled.
 
At Instructure offices, we employ electronic key access, physical key access, and video surveillance to secure areas."				DCS-07	"Implement physical security perimeters to safeguard personnel, data,
and information systems. Establish physical security perimeters between the
administrative and business areas and the data storage and processing facilities
areas.
"	Controlled Access Points	
DCS-07.2	"Are physical security perimeters established between administrative and business
areas, data storage, and processing facilities?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	"Customer data is stored in data centers owned by our hosting provider, AWS."							
DCS-08.1	"Is equipment identification used as a method for connection authentication?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	"Instructure controls access to our platform infrastructure, hosted on Amazon Web Services. The architectural components are logically controlled by authorized Instructure employees."				DCS-08	"Use equipment identification as a method for connection authentication.
"	Equipment Identification	
DCS-09.1	"Are solely authorized personnel able to access secure areas, with all ingress
and egress areas restricted, documented, and monitored by physical access control
mechanisms?
"	Yes	3rd-party outsourced	"Customer data is stored at Amazon Web Services (AWS) data centres. These are housed in undisclosed facilities, staffed 24x7x365. Physical access is strictly controlled both at the perimeter and at building ingress points by professional security staff utilizing video surveillance, intrusion detection systems, and other electronic means. Authorized staff must pass two-factor authentication a minimum of two times to access data centre floors. All visitors and contractors are required to present identification and are signed in and continually escorted by authorized staff. Further information can be found here: https://aws.amazon.com/compliance/data-center/controls/"				DCS-09	"Allow only authorized personnel access to secure areas, with all
ingress and egress points restricted, documented, and monitored by physical
access control mechanisms. Retain access control records on a periodic basis
as deemed appropriate by the organization.
"	Secure Area Authorization	
DCS-09.2	"Are access control records retained periodically, as deemed appropriate by
the organization?
"	Yes	3rd-party outsourced								
DCS-10.1	"Are external perimeter datacenter surveillance systems and surveillance systems
at all ingress and egress points implemented, maintained, and operated?
"	Yes	3rd-party outsourced					DCS-10	"Implement, maintain, and operate datacenter surveillance systems
at the external perimeter and at all the ingress and egress points to detect
unauthorized ingress and egress attempts.
"	Surveillance System	
DCS-11.1	"Are datacenter personnel trained to respond to unauthorized access or egress
attempts?
"	Yes	3rd-party outsourced					DCS-11	"Train datacenter personnel to respond to unauthorized ingress or
egress attempts.
"	Unauthorized Access Response Training	
DCS-12.1	"Are processes, procedures, and technical measures defined, implemented, and
evaluated to ensure risk-based protection of power and telecommunication cables
from interception, interference, or damage threats at all facilities, offices,
and rooms?
"	Yes	CSP-owned					DCS-12	"Define, implement and evaluate processes, procedures and technical
measures that ensure a risk-based protection of power and telecommunication
cables from a threat of interception, interference or damage at all facilities,
offices and rooms.
"	Cabling Security	
DCS-13.1	"Are data center environmental control systems designed to monitor, maintain,
and test that on-site temperature and humidity conditions fall within accepted
industry standards effectively implemented and maintained?
"	Yes	3rd-party outsourced					DCS-13	"Implement and maintain data center environmental control systems
that monitor, maintain and test for continual effectiveness the temperature
and humidity conditions within accepted industry standards.
"	Environmental Systems	
DCS-14.1	"Are utility services secured, monitored, maintained, and tested at planned
intervals for continual effectiveness?
"	Yes	3rd-party outsourced					DCS-14	"Secure, monitor, maintain, and test utilities services for continual
effectiveness at planned intervals.
"	Secure Utilities	
DCS-15.1	"Is business-critical equipment segregated from locations subject to a high
probability of environmental risk events?
"	Yes	3rd-party outsourced	"AWS carefully chooses data center locations to mitigate environmental risk, such as flooding, extreme weather, and seismic activity."				DCS-15	"Keep business-critical equipment away from locations subject to high
probability for environmental risk events.
"	Equipment Location	
DSP-01.1	"Are policies and procedures established, documented, approved, communicated,
enforced, evaluated, and maintained for the classification, protection, and handling
of data throughout its lifecycle according to all applicable laws and regulations,
standards, and risk level?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	"Instructure maintains data classification, protection, and handling procedures throughout its lifecycle based on our Data Classification, Handling, and Encryption Policy. This policy is reviewed at least annually and approved by relevant stakeholders and the Information Security Team. The purpose of the policy is to provide Instructure personnel with guiding practices and principles for the classification and appropriate handling of all data. Instructure is also ISO 27001:2013 certified and the information classification, labeling and handling is covered under the ISO 27001:2013 standard."				DSP-01	"Establish, document, approve, communicate, apply, evaluate and maintain
policies and procedures for the classification, protection and handling of data
throughout its lifecycle, and according to all applicable laws and regulations,
standards, and risk level. Review and update the policies and procedures at
least annually.
"	Security and Privacy Policy and Procedures	Data Security and Privacy Lifecycle Management
DSP-01.2	"Are data security and privacy policies and procedures reviewed and updated
at least annually?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	At least annually.							
DSP-02.1	"Are industry-accepted methods applied for secure data disposal from storage
media so information is not recoverable by any forensic means?
"	Yes	Shared CSP and 3rd-party	"Within the Data Classification, Handling, and Encryption Policy, data destruction means commercially reasonable means are used to ensure data cannot be reconstructed (or re-identified if applicable). Data stored electronically is unrecoverable using a secure wipe program in accordance with industry-accepted standards for secure deletion. Further, customer data stored in AWS infrastructure is subject to AWS’ media destruction practices, which renders data unrecoverable."				DSP-02	"Apply industry accepted methods for the secure disposal of data from
storage media such that data is not recoverable by any forensic means.
"	Secure Disposal	
DSP-03.1	"Is a data inventory created and maintained for sensitive and personal information
(at a minimum)?
"	Yes	CSP-owned					DSP-03	"Create and maintain a data inventory, at least for any sensitive
data and personal data.
"	Data Inventory	
DSP-04.1	"Is data classified according to type and sensitivity levels?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	"All data at Instructure is classified according to four (4) levels:
 
 _ Public
 _ Internal (Confidential)
 _ Highly Sensitive (Confidential)
 _ Privileged and Confidential"				DSP-04	"Classify data according to its type and sensitivity level.
"	Data Classification	
DSP-05.1	"Is data flow documentation created to identify what data is processed and
where it is stored and transmitted?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	Instructure maintains data flow and mapping documentation.				DSP-05	"Create data flow documentation to identify what data is processed,
stored or transmitted where. Review data flow documentation at defined intervals,
at least annually, and after any change.
"	Data Flow Documentation	
DSP-05.2	"Is data flow documentation reviewed at defined intervals, at least annually,
and after any change?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	At least anually.							
DSP-06.1	"Is the ownership and stewardship of all relevant personal and sensitive data
documented?
"	Yes	CSP-owned					DSP-06	"Document ownership and stewardship of all relevant documented personal
and sensitive data. Perform review at least annually.
"	Data Ownership and Stewardship	
DSP-06.2	"Is data ownership and stewardship documentation reviewed at least annually?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	At least anually.							
DSP-07.1	"Are systems, products, and business practices based on security principles
by design and per industry best practices?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	"Instructure has a robust information security program that runs on a continuous, PDCA-cycle. It was created based on guidance provided by ISO/IEC 27000:2018 and controls described in ISO/IEC 27001:2013, and is managed by Instructure's Chief Information Security and Privacy Officer. We hold ISO 27001 certification and also draw on a range of industry standards and best practices, including OWASP, in the development of our products and their underlying architecture and infrastructure."				DSP-07	"Develop systems, products, and business practices based upon a principle
of security by design and industry best practices.
"	Data Protection by Design and Default	
DSP-08.1	"Are systems, products, and business practices based on privacy principles
by design and according to industry best practices?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	"Instructure diligently protects user privacy. Our products and services are designed and created with user privacy at the forefront and we comply with current, applicable data privacy and protection laws in the data zones we serve. This includes compliance with the EU's national data privacy and protection law, the General Data Protection Regulation (“GDPR”). We are also a signatory of the StudentPrivacyPledge.org, among other signatories such as Apple, Google, and Microsoft.
 
 For our complete commitment to privacy, please see: inst.bid/privacy"				DSP-08	"Develop systems, products, and business practices based upon a principle
of privacy by design and industry best practices. Ensure that systems' privacy
settings are configured by default, according to all applicable laws and regulations.
"	Data Privacy by Design and Default	
DSP-08.2	"Are systems' privacy settings configured by default and according to all applicable
laws and regulations?
"	Yes	CSP-owned								
DSP-09.1	"Is a data protection impact assessment (DPIA) conducted when processing personal
data and evaluating the origin, nature, particularity, and severity of risks according
to any applicable laws, regulations and industry best practices?
"	Yes	Shared CSP and CSC	"Where required, we assist our customers in conducting DPIAs."				DSP-09	"Conduct a Data Protection Impact Assessment (DPIA) to evaluate the
origin, nature, particularity and severity of the risks upon the processing
of personal data, according to any applicable laws, regulations and industry
best practices.
"	Data Protection Impact Assessment	
DSP-10.1	"Are processes, procedures, and technical measures defined, implemented, and
evaluated to ensure any transfer of personal or sensitive data is protected from
unauthorized access and only processed within scope (as permitted by respective
laws and regulations)?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	"Our platform is secured first by authentication and then by access permissions, protecting data from unauthorized access."				DSP-10	"Define, implement and evaluate processes, procedures and technical
measures that ensure any transfer of personal or sensitive data is protected
from unauthorized access and only processed within scope as permitted by the
respective laws and regulations.
"	Sensitive Data Transfer	
DSP-11.1	"Are processes, procedures, and technical measures defined, implemented, and
evaluated to enable data subjects to request access to, modify, or delete personal
data (per applicable laws and regulations)?
"	Yes	CSP-owned					DSP-11	"Define and implement, processes, procedures and technical measures
to enable data subjects to request access to, modification, or deletion of their
personal data, according to any applicable laws and regulations.
"	"Personal Data Access, Reversal, Rectification and Deletion"	
DSP-12.1	"Are processes, procedures, and technical measures defined, implemented, and
evaluated to ensure personal data is processed (per applicable laws and regulations
and for the purposes declared to the data subject)?
"	Yes	CSP-owned					DSP-12	"Define, implement and evaluate processes, procedures and technical
measures to ensure that personal data is processed according to any applicable
laws and regulations and for the purposes declared to the data subject.
"	Limitation of Purpose in Personal Data Processing	
DSP-13.1	"Are processes, procedures, and technical measures defined, implemented, and
evaluated for the transfer and sub-processing of personal data within the service
supply chain (according to any applicable laws and regulations)?
"	Yes	CSP-owned					DSP-13	"Define, implement and evaluate processes, procedures and technical
measures for the transfer and sub-processing of personal data within the service
supply chain, according to any applicable laws and regulations.
"	Personal Data Sub-processing	
DSP-14.1	"Are processes, procedures, and technical measures defined, implemented, and
evaluated to disclose details to the data owner of any personal or sensitive data
access by sub-processors before processing initiation?
"	Yes	CSP-owned					DSP-14	"Define, implement and evaluate processes, procedures and technical
measures to disclose the details of any personal or sensitive data access by
sub-processors to the data owner prior to initiation of that processing.
"	Disclosure of Data Sub-processors	
DSP-15.1	"Is authorization from data owners obtained, and the associated risk managed,
before replicating or using production data in non-production environments?
"	Yes	CSP-owned					DSP-15	"Obtain authorization from data owners, and manage associated risk
before replicating or using production data in non-production environments.
"	Limitation of Production Data Use	
DSP-16.1	"Do data retention, archiving, and deletion practices follow business requirements,
applicable laws, and regulations?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	"Instructure complies with current, applicable data privacy and protection laws in the data zones we serve."				DSP-16	"Data retention, archiving and deletion is managed in accordance with
business requirements, applicable laws and regulations.
"	Data Retention and Deletion	
DSP-17.1	"Are processes, procedures, and technical measures defined and implemented
to protect sensitive data throughout its lifecycle?
"	Yes	CSP-owned					DSP-17	"Define and implement, processes, procedures and technical measures
to protect sensitive data throughout it's lifecycle.
"	Sensitive Data Protection	
DSP-18.1	"Does the CSP have in place, and describe to CSCs, the procedure to manage
and respond to requests for disclosure of Personal Data by Law Enforcement Authorities
according to applicable laws and regulations?
"	Yes	Shared CSP and CSC					DSP-18	"The CSP must have in place, and describe to CSCs the procedure to
manage and respond to requests for disclosure of Personal Data by Law Enforcement
Authorities according to applicable laws and regulations. The CSP must give
special attention to the notification procedure to interested CSCs, unless otherwise
prohibited, such as a prohibition under criminal law to preserve confidentiality
of a law enforcement investigation.
"	Disclosure Notification	
DSP-18.2	"Does the CSP give special attention to the notification procedure to interested
CSCs, unless otherwise prohibited, such as a prohibition under criminal law to
preserve confidentiality of a law enforcement investigation?
"	Yes	Shared CSP and CSC								
DSP-19.1	"Are processes, procedures, and technical measures defined and implemented
to specify and document physical data locations, including locales where data
is processed or backed up?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	"Note, our hosting provider, AWS, does not disclose precise physical locations of data centers."				DSP-19	"Define and implement, processes, procedures and technical measures
to specify and document the physical locations of data, including any locations
in which data is processed or backed up.
"	Data Location	
GRC-01.1	"Are information governance program policies and procedures sponsored by organizational
leadership established, documented, approved, communicated, applied, evaluated,
and maintained?
"	Yes	CSP-owned					GRC-01	"Establish, document, approve, communicate, apply, evaluate and maintain
policies and procedures for an information governance program, which is sponsored
by the leadership of the organization. Review and update the policies and procedures
at least annually.
"	Governance Program Policy and Procedures	"Governance, Risk and Compliance"
GRC-01.2	"Are the policies and procedures reviewed and updated at least annually?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	At least annually.							
GRC-02.1	"Is there an established formal, documented, and leadership-sponsored enterprise
risk management (ERM) program that includes policies and procedures for identification,
evaluation, ownership, treatment, and acceptance of cloud security and privacy
risks?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	"Instructure's Risk Management Program establishes an approach and process for continually identifying, assessing, mitigating, and monitoring risks that impact Instructure's people, systems, buildings, and processes. This program is based on guidance from the National Institute of Standards and Technology’s (NIST) Special Publication (SP) 800-37 and International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 27005: Information Security Risk Management."				GRC-02	"Establish a formal, documented, and leadership-sponsored Enterprise
Risk Management (ERM) program that includes policies and procedures for identification,
evaluation, ownership, treatment, and acceptance of cloud security and privacy
risks.
"	Risk Management Program	
GRC-03.1	"Are all relevant organizational policies and associated procedures reviewed
at least annually, or when a substantial organizational change occurs?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	At least annually.				GRC-03	"Review all relevant organizational policies and associated procedures
at least annually or when a substantial change occurs within the organization.
"	Organizational Policy Reviews	
GRC-04.1	"Is an approved exception process mandated by the governance program established
and followed whenever a deviation from an established policy occurs?
"	Yes	CSP-owned					GRC-04	"Establish and follow an approved exception process as mandated by
the governance program whenever a deviation from an established policy occurs.
"	Policy Exception Process	
GRC-05.1	"Has an information security program (including programs of all relevant CCM
domains) been developed and implemented?
"	Yes	CSP-owned					GRC-05	"Develop and implement an Information Security Program, which includes
programs for all the relevant domains of the CCM.
"	Information Security Program	
GRC-06.1	"Are roles and responsibilities for planning, implementing, operating, assessing,
and improving governance programs defined and documented?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	"Instructure has implemented an ISMS which details roles and responsibilities for planning, implementing, operating, assessing, and updating governance programs."				GRC-06	"Define and document roles and responsibilities for planning, implementing,
operating, assessing, and improving governance programs.
"	Governance Responsibility Model	
GRC-07.1	"Are all relevant standards, regulations, legal/contractual, and statutory
requirements applicable to your organization identified and documented?
"	Yes	CSP-owned					GRC-07	"Identify and document all relevant standards, regulations, legal/contractual,
and statutory requirements, which are applicable to your organization.
"	Information System Regulatory Mapping	
GRC-08.1	"Is contact established and maintained with cloud-related special interest
groups and other relevant entities?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	"Instructure's Security and Engineering Teams subscribe to security-focused lists, blogs, and other resources to maintain, expand, and share the collective body of knowledge."				GRC-08	"Establish and maintain contact with cloud-related special interest
groups and other relevant entities in line with business context.
"	Special Interest Groups	
HRS-01.1	"Are background verification policies and procedures of all new employees (including
but not limited to remote employees, contractors, and third parties) established,
documented, approved, communicated, applied, evaluated, and maintained?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	"Instructure performs criminal background checks on all employees and contractors during the hiring process, and employment is contingent based on the results of the background check. Additional credit background checks are performed on key financial employees."				HRS-01	"Establish, document, approve, communicate, apply, evaluate and maintain
policies and procedures for background verification of all new employees (including
but not limited to remote employees, contractors, and third parties) according
to local laws, regulations, ethics, and contractual constraints and proportional
to the data classification to be accessed, the business requirements, and acceptable
risk. Review and update the policies and procedures at least annually.
"	Background Screening Policy and Procedures	Human Resources
HRS-01.2	"Are background verification policies and procedures designed according to
local laws, regulations, ethics, and contractual constraints and proportional
to the data classification to be accessed, business requirements, and acceptable
risk?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	The scope of background checks are subject to local laws in the jurisdictions in which the employee is hired.							
HRS-01.3	"Are background verification policies and procedures reviewed and updated at
least annually?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	At least annually.							
HRS-02.1	"Are policies and procedures for defining allowances and conditions for the
acceptable use of organizationally-owned or managed assets established, documented,
approved, communicated, applied, evaluated, and maintained?
"	Yes	CSP-owned					HRS-02	"Establish, document, approve, communicate, apply, evaluate and maintain
policies and procedures for defining allowances and conditions for the acceptable
use of organizationally-owned or managed assets. Review and update the policies
and procedures at least annually.
"	Acceptable Use of Technology Policy and Procedures	
HRS-02.2	"Are the policies and procedures for defining allowances and conditions for
the acceptable use of organizationally-owned or managed assets reviewed and updated
at least annually?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	At least annually.							
HRS-03.1	"Are policies and procedures requiring unattended workspaces to conceal confidential
data established, documented, approved, communicated, applied, evaluated, and
maintained?
"	Yes	CSP-owned					HRS-03	"Establish, document, approve, communicate, apply, evaluate and maintain
policies and procedures that require unattended workspaces to not have openly
visible confidential data. Review and update the policies and procedures at
least annually.
"	Clean Desk Policy and Procedures	
HRS-03.2	"Are policies and procedures requiring unattended workspaces to conceal confidential
data reviewed and updated at least annually?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	At least annually.							
HRS-04.1	"Are policies and procedures to protect information accessed, processed, or
stored at remote sites and locations established, documented, approved, communicated,
applied, evaluated, and maintained?
"	Yes	CSP-owned					HRS-04	"Establish, document, approve, communicate, apply, evaluate and maintain
policies and procedures to protect information accessed, processed or stored
at remote sites and locations. Review and update the policies and procedures
at least annually.
"	Remote and Home Working Policy and Procedures	
HRS-04.2	"Are policies and procedures to protect information accessed, processed, or
stored at remote sites and locations reviewed and updated at least annually?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	At least annually.							
HRS-05.1	"Are return procedures of organizationally-owned assets by terminated employees
established and documented?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	"Terminated employees must return all issued software, documents, devices, access cards and any information stored on electronic media. A documented knowledge transfer process occurs where the terminated employee has knowledge crucial to ongoing operations. Confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements with employees are still valid after termination or when an employee leaves the organization."				HRS-05	"Establish and document procedures for the return of organization-owned
assets by terminated employees.
"	Asset returns	
HRS-06.1	"Are procedures outlining the roles and responsibilities concerning changes
in employment established, documented, and communicated to all personnel?
"	Yes	CSP-owned					HRS-06	"Establish, document, and communicate to all personnel the procedures
outlining the roles and responsibilities concerning changes in employment.
"	Employment Termination	
HRS-07.1	"Are employees required to sign an employment agreement before gaining access
to organizational information systems, resources, and assets?
"	Yes	CSP-owned					HRS-07	"Employees sign the employee agreement prior to being granted access
to organizational information systems, resources and assets.
"	Employment Agreement Process	
HRS-08.1	"Are provisions and/or terms for adherence to established information governance
and security policies included within employment agreements?
"	Yes	CSP-owned					HRS-08	"The organization includes within the employment agreements provisions
and/or terms for adherence to established information governance and security
policies.
"	Employment Agreement Content	
HRS-09.1	"Are employee roles and responsibilities relating to information assets and
security documented and communicated?
"	Yes	CSP-owned					HRS-09	"Document and communicate roles and responsibilities of employees,
as they relate to information assets and security.
"	Personnel Roles and Responsibilities	
HRS-10.1	"Are requirements for non-disclosure/confidentiality agreements reflecting
organizational data protection needs and operational details identified, documented,
and reviewed at planned intervals?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	Confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements with employees are still valid after termination or when an employee leaves the organization.				HRS-10	"Identify, document, and review, at planned intervals, requirements
for non-disclosure/confidentiality agreements reflecting the organization's
needs for the protection of data and operational details.
"	Non-Disclosure Agreements	
HRS-11.1	"Is a security awareness training program for all employees of the organization
established, documented, approved, communicated, applied, evaluated and maintained?
"	Yes	CSP-owned					HRS-11	"Establish, document, approve, communicate, apply, evaluate and maintain
a security awareness training program for all employees of the organization
and provide regular training updates.
"	Security Awareness Training	
HRS-11.2	"Are regular security awareness training updates provided?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	"All Instructure personnel are required to complete Instructure's Compliance, Privacy, and Security Awareness Training within 30 days of hire as per our employment terms and conditions, and annually thereafter. The content of this training includes all relevant areas of security (online, mobile, physical, MFA etc.), privacy, and compliance requirements for each employee - including our policies. There is a formal disciplinary process in place to enforce security policies, and actions are taken up to and including dismissal if policies are not followed."							
HRS-12.1	"Are all employees granted access to sensitive organizational and personal
data provided with appropriate security awareness training?
"	Yes	CSP-owned					HRS-12	"Provide all employees with access to sensitive organizational and
personal data with appropriate security awareness training and regular updates
in organizational procedures, processes, and policies relating to their professional
function relative to the organization.
"	Personal and Sensitive Data Awareness and Training	
HRS-12.2	"Are all employees granted access to sensitive organizational and personal
data provided with regular updates in procedures, processes, and policies relating
to their professional function?
"	Yes	CSP-owned								
HRS-13.1	"Are employees notified of their roles and responsibilities to maintain awareness
and compliance with established policies, procedures, and applicable legal, statutory,
or regulatory compliance obligations?
"	Yes	CSP-owned					HRS-13	"Make employees aware of their roles and responsibilities for maintaining
awareness and compliance with established policies and procedures and applicable
legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance obligations.
"	Compliance User Responsibility	
IAM-01.1	"Are identity and access management policies and procedures established, documented,
approved, communicated, implemented, applied, evaluated, and maintained?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	"Instructure employees utilize unique IDs to authenticate to systems, and policy prohibits users from directly authenticating using service accounts. Access to internal company systems, including source code repository tools, code review tools, and internal ticketing systems, requires network authentication with a valid user ID and password. Internal network password parameters include:
 
 _ prevent the reuse of at least the last 15 passwords
 _ restrict the use of 3 or more repeating characters
 _ restrict the use of a password that contains a user's display name or username
 _ check a user's proposed password against a list of known weak passwords and dictionary words
 _ limit authentication attempts to 5 times prior to account lockout for 60 minutes."				IAM-01	"Establish, document, approve, communicate, implement, apply, evaluate
and maintain policies and procedures for identity and access management. Review
and update the policies and procedures at least annually.
"	Identity and Access Management Policy and Procedures	Identity & Access Management
IAM-01.2	"Are identity and access management policies and procedures reviewed and updated
at least annually?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	At least annually.							
IAM-02.1	"Are strong password policies and procedures established, documented, approved,
communicated, implemented, applied, evaluated, and maintained?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	Please see IAM-01.1.				IAM-02	"Establish, document, approve, communicate, implement, apply, evaluate
and maintain strong password policies and procedures. Review and update the
policies and procedures at least annually.
"	Strong Password Policy and Procedures	
IAM-02.2	"Are strong password policies and procedures reviewed and updated at least
annually?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	At least annually.							
IAM-03.1	"Is system identity information and levels of access managed, stored, and reviewed?
"	Yes	CSP-owned					IAM-03	"Manage, store, and review the information of system identities, and
level of access.
"	Identity Inventory	
IAM-04.1	"Is the separation of duties principle employed when implementing information
system access?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	Instructure has a separation of duties policy for developers and administrators.				IAM-04	"Employ the separation of duties principle when implementing information
system access.
"	Separation of Duties	
IAM-05.1	"Is the least privilege principle employed when implementing information system
access?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	"Depending on their role, the user can have varying scopes of access based on the principle of least privilege."				IAM-05	"Employ the least privilege principle when implementing information
system access.
"	Least Privilege	
IAM-06.1	"Is a user access provisioning process defined and implemented which authorizes,
records, and communicates data and assets access changes?
"	Yes	CSP-owned					IAM-06	"Define and implement a user access provisioning process which authorizes,
records, and communicates access changes to data and assets.
"	User Access Provisioning	
IAM-07.1	"Is a process in place to de-provision or modify the access, in a timely manner,
of movers / leavers or system identity changes, to effectively adopt and communicate
identity and access management policies?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	"Upon employee termination or for departmental/role moves, all system access is immediately removed and/or modified."				IAM-07	"De-provision or respectively modify access of movers / leavers or
system identity changes in a timely manner in order to effectively adopt and
communicate identity and access management policies.
"	User Access Changes and Revocation	
IAM-08.1	"Are reviews and revalidation of user access for least privilege and separation
of duties completed with a frequency commensurate with organizational risk tolerance?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	Access is routinely reviewed on a quarterly basis to revalidate user access.				IAM-08	"Review and revalidate user access for least privilege and separation
of duties with a frequency that is commensurate with organizational risk tolerance.
"	User Access Review	
IAM-09.1	"Are processes, procedures, and technical measures for the segregation of privileged
access roles defined, implemented, and evaluated such that administrative data
access, encryption, key management capabilities, and logging capabilities are
distinct and separate?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	"Instructure maintains access policies and standards based upon role and least privilege access principles. Instructure uses a multiple approval system for granting access to said employees. The manager of the employee requesting access must fill out a ticket detailing the level of access to the system required and specifying which parts, functions, and features are to be accessible by the employee. Clear, valid, and necessary business justification must be provided for the user in question. Instructure’s technology teams facilitate the installation of keys for all employees with access to customer data. An automated configuration system installs employee public keys on a per-server basis based on need. This same configuration process automatically revokes keys globally when necessary."				IAM-09	"Define, implement and evaluate processes, procedures and technical
measures for the segregation of privileged access roles such that administrative
access to data, encryption and key management capabilities and logging capabilities
are distinct and separated.
"	Segregation of Privileged Access Roles	
IAM-10.1	"Is an access process defined and implemented to ensure privileged access roles
and rights are granted for a limited period?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	"Access is time-bound for the performance of duties, and is routinely reviewed and removed if no longer necessary. Per the employee exit policy, user accounts are deleted upon termination of employment."				IAM-10	"Define and implement an access process to ensure privileged access
roles and rights are granted for a time limited period, and implement procedures
to prevent the culmination of segregated privileged access.
"	Management of Privileged Access Roles	
IAM-10.2	"Are procedures implemented to prevent the culmination of segregated privileged
access?
"	Yes	CSP-owned								
IAM-11.1	"Are processes and procedures for customers to participate, where applicable,
in granting access for agreed, high risk as (defined by the organizational risk
assessment) privileged access roles defined, implemented and evaluated?
"	Yes	CSC-owned	Customers of our platform are in complete control of their organizational access.				IAM-11	"Define, implement and evaluate processes and procedures for customers
to participate, where applicable, in the granting of access for agreed, high
risk (as defined by the organizational risk assessment) privileged access roles.
"	CSCs Approval for Agreed Privileged Access Roles	
IAM-12.1	"Are processes, procedures, and technical measures to ensure the logging infrastructure
is ""read-only"" for all with write access (including privileged access roles) defined,
implemented, and evaluated?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	"Instructure maintains a logging policy and logs activity on systems and applications in order to keep actions attributable, and keep users and systems accountable for actions taken. Logs are immutable."				IAM-12	"Define, implement and evaluate processes, procedures and technical
measures to ensure the logging infrastructure is read-only for all with write
access, including privileged access roles, and that the ability to disable it
is controlled through a procedure that ensures the segregation of duties and
break glass procedures.
"	Safeguard Logs Integrity	
IAM-12.2	"Is the ability to disable the ""read-only"" configuration of logging infrastructure
controlled through a procedure that ensures the segregation of duties and break
glass procedures?
"	Yes	CSP-owned								
IAM-13.1	"Are processes, procedures, and technical measures that ensure users are identifiable
through unique identification (or can associate individuals with user identification
usage) defined, implemented, and evaluated?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	Instructure's authentication policy mandates unique user IDs and prohibits users from authenticating through service accounts.				IAM-13	"Define, implement and evaluate processes, procedures and technical
measures that ensure users are identifiable through unique IDs or which can
associate individuals to the usage of user IDs.
"	Uniquely Identifiable Users	
IAM-14.1	"Are processes, procedures, and technical measures for authenticating access
to systems, application, and data assets including multifactor authentication
for a least-privileged user and sensitive data access defined, implemented, and
evaluated?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	Multi-Factor authentication is mandated for authenticating access to Instructure's systems and digital assets.				IAM-14	"Define, implement and evaluate processes, procedures and technical
measures for authenticating access to systems, application and data assets,
including multifactor authentication for at least privileged user and sensitive
data access. Adopt digital certificates or alternatives which achieve an equivalent
level of security for system identities.
"	Strong Authentication	
IAM-14.2	"Are digital certificates or alternatives that achieve an equivalent security
level for system identities adopted?
"	Yes	CSP-owned								
IAM-15.1	"Are processes, procedures, and technical measures for the secure management
of passwords defined, implemented, and evaluated?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	"Instructure mandates a password policy with minimum requirements for length, complexity, rotation, and reuse. Password management tools are used to securely manage secrets."				IAM-15	"Define, implement and evaluate processes, procedures and technical
measures for the secure management of passwords.
"	Passwords Management	
IAM-16.1	"Are processes, procedures, and technical measures to verify access to data
and system functions authorized, defined, implemented, and evaluated?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	"Instructure's Human Resources department enters relevant personnel employment information into the employee management system, Workday. Workday regularly updates employee additions, updates, transfers and terminations to the identity management platform."				IAM-16	"Define, implement and evaluate processes, procedures and technical
measures to verify access to data and system functions is authorized.
"	Authorization Mechanisms	
IPY-01.1	"Are policies and procedures established, documented, approved, communicated,
applied, evaluated, and maintained for communications between application services
(e.g., APIs)?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	"Our platform provides a fully documented, secure, open representational state (REST) API that securely exposes data and functionality for data import and export. For Canvas, our flagship LMS, the API documentation is publicly available at inst.bid/canvas/lms/api"				IPY-01	"Establish, document, approve, communicate, apply, evaluate and maintain
policies and procedures for interoperability and portability including
requirements for:
a. Communications between application interfaces
b. Information processing interoperability
c. Application development portability
d. Information/Data exchange, usage, portability, integrity, and persistence
Review and update the policies and procedures at least annually.
"	Interoperability and Portability Policy and Procedures	Interoperability & Portability
IPY-01.2	"Are policies and procedures established, documented, approved, communicated,
applied, evaluated, and maintained for information processing interoperability?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	Please see IPY-01.1.							
IPY-01.3	"Are policies and procedures established, documented, approved, communicated,
applied, evaluated, and maintained for application development portability?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	Please see IPY-01.1.							
IPY-01.4	"Are policies and procedures established, documented, approved, communicated,
applied, evaluated, and maintained for information/data exchange, usage, portability,
integrity, and persistence?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	Please see IPY-01.1.							
IPY-01.5	"Are interoperability and portability policies and procedures reviewed and
updated at least annually?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	At least annually.							
IPY-02.1	"Are CSCs able to programmatically retrieve their data via an application interface(s)
to enable interoperability and portability?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	Please see IPY-01.1				IPY-02	"Provide application interface(s) to CSCs so that they programmatically
retrieve their data to enable interoperability and portability.
"	Application Interface Availability	
IPY-03.1	"Are cryptographically secure and standardized network protocols implemented
for the management, import, and export of data?
"	Yes	CSP-owned					IPY-03	"Implement cryptographically secure and standardized network protocols
for the management, import and export of data.
"	Secure Interoperability and Portability Management	
IPY-04.1	"Do agreements include provisions specifying CSC data access upon contract termination, and have the following?
a. Data format
b. Duration data will be stored
c. Scope of the data retained and made available to the CSCs
d. Data deletion policy
"	Yes	CSP-owned	"Customers can utilize open RESTful API access and export capabilities to retrieve data at contract termination. On termination or expiration of the Customer Agreement, customers have 90 days to extract any data from our products, using the available mechanisms as described in our documentation. After 90 days, customer data is securely deleted to industry best-practice standards."				IPY-04	"Agreements must include provisions specifying CSCs access to data
upon contract termination and will include:
a. Data format
b. Length of time the data will be stored
c. Scope of the data retained and made available to the CSCs
d. Data deletion policy
"	Data Portability Contractual Obligations	
IVS-01.1	"Are infrastructure and virtualization security policies and procedures established,
documented, approved, communicated, applied, evaluated, and maintained?
"	Yes	CSP-owned					IVS-01	"Establish, document, approve, communicate, apply, evaluate and maintain
policies and procedures for infrastructure and virtualization security. Review
and update the policies and procedures at least annually.
"	Infrastructure and Virtualization Security Policy and Procedures	Infrastructure & Virtualization Security
IVS-01.2	"Are infrastructure and virtualization security policies and procedures reviewed
and updated at least annually?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	At least annually.							
IVS-02.1	"Is resource availability, quality, and capacity planned and monitored in a
way that delivers required system performance, as determined by the business?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	"Instructure continually monitors platform performance and availability and offers redundancy of computing resources with active monitoring for failure detection and automated fail-over. For example, application servers are constantly monitored via a heartbeat mechanism. If an application server stops responding to heartbeat checks, the load balancer will remove it from the pool of servers to which it sends requests. Application servers do not persist state, so losing an application server does not affect the service."				IVS-02	"Plan and monitor the availability, quality, and adequate capacity
of resources in order to deliver the required system performance as determined
by the business.
"	Capacity and Resource Planning	
IVS-03.1	"Are communications between environments monitored?
"	Yes	CSP-owned					IVS-03	"Monitor, encrypt and restrict communications between environments
to only authenticated and authorized connections, as justified by the business.
Review these configurations at least annually, and support them by a documented
justification of all allowed services, protocols, ports, and compensating controls.
"	Network Security	
IVS-03.2	"Are communications between environments encrypted?
"	Yes	CSP-owned								
IVS-03.3	"Are communications between environments restricted to only authenticated and
authorized connections, as justified by the business?
"	Yes	CSP-owned								
IVS-03.4	"Are network configurations reviewed at least annually?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	At least annually.							
IVS-03.5	"Are network configurations supported by the documented justification of all
allowed services, protocols, ports, and compensating controls?
"	Yes	CSP-owned								
IVS-04.1	"Is every host and guest OS, hypervisor, or infrastructure control plane hardened
(according to their respective best practices) and supported by technical controls
as part of a security baseline?
"	Yes	CSP-owned					IVS-04	"Harden host and guest OS, hypervisor or infrastructure control plane
according to their respective best practices, and supported by technical controls,
as part of a security baseline.
"	OS Hardening and Base Controls	
IVS-05.1	"Are production and non-production environments separated?
"	Yes	CSP-owned					IVS-05	"Separate production and non-production environments.
"	Production and Non-Production Environments	
IVS-06.1	"Are applications and infrastructures designed, developed, deployed, and configured
such that CSP and CSC (tenant) user access and intra-tenant access is appropriately
segmented, segregated, monitored, and restricted from other tenants?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	Data is separated natively in a multi-tenant environment. Multi-tenancy is regarded as one of the essential attributes of cloud computing and ensures that data is secure and logically separated from other institutions.				IVS-06	"Design, develop, deploy and configure applications and infrastructures
such that CSP and CSC (tenant) user access and intra-tenant access is appropriately
segmented and segregated, monitored and restricted from other tenants.
"	Segmentation and Segregation	
IVS-07.1	"Are secure and encrypted communication channels including only up-to-date
and approved protocols used when migrating servers, services, applications, or
data to cloud environments?
"	Yes	CSP-owned					IVS-07	"Use secure and encrypted communication channels when migrating servers,
services, applications, or data to cloud environments. Such channels must include
only up-to-date and approved protocols.
"	Migration to Cloud Environments	
IVS-08.1	"Are high-risk environments identified and documented?
"	Yes	CSP-owned					IVS-08	"Identify and document high-risk environments.
"	Network Architecture Documentation	
IVS-09.1	"Are processes, procedures, and defense-in-depth techniques defined, implemented,
and evaluated for protection, detection, and timely response to network-based
attacks?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	"Instructure's Security Team use a wide-range of first-class security tools to monitor for intrusions and attacks, 24x7x365."				IVS-09	"Define, implement and evaluate processes, procedures and defense-in-depth
techniques for protection, detection, and timely response to network-based attacks.
"	Network Defense	
LOG-01.1	"Are logging and monitoring policies and procedures established, documented,
approved, communicated, applied, evaluated, and maintained?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	"Instructure maintains a logging and monitoring policy which logs and monitors activity on systems and applications in order to keep actions attributable, and keep users and systems accountable for actions taken. The logging and monitoring policies are managed by Instructure's Security Team and based on information security best practices as set forth by the International Organization for Standardization's (ISO) 27000 suite of standards, NIST's 800-53 suite of controls, and the AICPA's Trust Service Principles and Criteria. Instructure holds SOC 2 Type II reports and ISO 27001 certification."				LOG-01	"Establish, document, approve, communicate, apply, evaluate and maintain
policies and procedures for logging and monitoring. Review and update the policies
and procedures at least annually.
"	Logging and Monitoring Policy and Procedures	Logging and Monitoring
LOG-01.2	"Are policies and procedures reviewed and updated at least annually?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	At least annually.							
LOG-02.1	"Are processes, procedures, and technical measures defined, implemented, and
evaluated to ensure audit log security and retention?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	"All activity is logged in secure, immutable logs using Cloudwatch, CloudTrail and other AWS service logging. Furthermore, cloud workload monitoring solutions are deployed on all instances, which collect event data from instances and centrally store them. All our logs are piped to our SIEM, Splunk, for analysis and archiving."				LOG-02	"Define, implement and evaluate processes, procedures and technical
measures to ensure the security and retention of audit logs.
"	Audit Logs Protection	
LOG-03.1	"Are security-related events identified and monitored within applications and
the underlying infrastructure?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	"Instructure continuously monitors and analyzes our networks in real-time, sending any alerts generated directly to the Security Team for review and actioning. Logging and monitoring 24x7 means we have real-time alarms for events that may affect our services. Any triggered alarms go to our teams (e.g. Security, DevOps) for immediate action, 24x7x365."				LOG-03	"Identify and monitor security-related events within applications
and the underlying infrastructure. Define and implement a system to generate
alerts to responsible stakeholders based on such events and corresponding metrics.
"	Security Monitoring and Alerting	
LOG-03.2	"Is a system defined and implemented to generate alerts to responsible stakeholders
based on security events and their corresponding metrics?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	Any alerts triggered are sent to the appropriate teams 24x7x365 via PagerDuty.							
LOG-04.1	"Is access to audit logs restricted to authorized personnel, and are records
maintained to provide unique access accountability?
"	Yes	CSP-owned					LOG-04	"Restrict audit logs access to authorized personnel and maintain records
that provide unique access accountability.
"	Audit Logs Access and Accountability	
LOG-05.1	"Are security audit logs monitored to detect activity outside of typical or
expected patterns?
"	Yes	CSP-owned					LOG-05	"Monitor security audit logs to detect activity outside of typical
or expected patterns. Establish and follow a defined process to review and take
appropriate and timely actions on detected anomalies.
"	Audit Logs Monitoring and Response	
LOG-05.2	"Is a process established and followed to review and take appropriate and timely
actions on detected anomalies?
"	Yes	CSP-owned								
LOG-06.1	"Is a reliable time source being used across all relevant information processing
systems?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	All logging is synchronized globally using known good NTP external sources.				LOG-06	"Use a reliable time source across all relevant information processing
systems.
"	Clock Synchronization	
LOG-07.1	"Are logging requirements for information meta/data system events established,
documented, and implemented?
"	Yes	CSP-owned					LOG-07	"Establish, document and implement which information meta/data system
events should be logged. Review and update the scope at least annually or whenever
there is a change in the threat environment.
"	Logging Scope	
LOG-07.2	"Is the scope reviewed and updated at least annually, or whenever there is
a change in the threat environment?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	At least annually.							
LOG-08.1	"Are audit records generated, and do they contain relevant security information?
"	Yes	CSP-owned					LOG-08	"Generate audit records containing relevant security information.
"	Log Records	
LOG-09.1	"Does the information system protect audit records from unauthorized access,
modification, and deletion?
"	Yes	CSP-owned					LOG-09	"The information system protects audit records from unauthorized access,
modification, and deletion.
"	Log Protection	
LOG-10.1	"Are monitoring and internal reporting capabilities established to report on
cryptographic operations, encryption, and key management policies, processes,
procedures, and controls?
"	Yes	CSP-owned					LOG-10	"Establish and maintain a monitoring and internal reporting capability
over the operations of cryptographic, encryption and key management policies,
processes, procedures, and controls.
"	Encryption Monitoring and Reporting	
LOG-11.1	"Are key lifecycle management events logged and monitored to enable auditing
and reporting on cryptographic keys' usage?
"	Yes	CSP-owned					LOG-11	"Log and monitor key lifecycle management events to enable auditing
and reporting on usage of cryptographic keys.
"	Transaction/Activity Logging	
LOG-12.1	"Is physical access logged and monitored using an auditable access control
system?
"	Yes	CSP-owned					LOG-12	"Monitor and log physical access using an auditable access control
system.
"	Access Control Logs	
LOG-13.1	"Are processes and technical measures for reporting monitoring system anomalies
and failures defined, implemented, and evaluated?
"	Yes	CSP-owned					LOG-13	"Define, implement and evaluate processes, procedures and technical
measures for the reporting of anomalies and failures of the monitoring system
and provide immediate notification to the accountable party.
"	Failures and Anomalies Reporting	
LOG-13.2	"Are accountable parties immediately notified about anomalies and failures?
"	Yes	CSP-owned								
SEF-01.1	"Are policies and procedures for security incident management, e-discovery,
and cloud forensics established, documented, approved, communicated, applied,
evaluated, and maintained?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	"Instructure maintains several policies and plans for Security Incident Management, Breach Management, Security Incident Response Plan Training and Testing. These plans and policies are managed by the Instructure Security Team and reviewed on an ongoing basis by key stakeholders and relevant teams. The plans encompass robust procedures for dealing with a wide range of incidents including:
 _ Denial of Service (DoS) Attacks
 _ Unauthorized Use
 _ Cyber-Vandalism
 _ Theft and disclosure of Proprietary Information – Corporate Espionage / Privacy Violations
 _ Computers Systems/Network Intrusions
 
 The plans detail full end to end processes for incident management including roles and responsibilities, preparation and plan testing, and forensic evidence processing guidelines. These policies are made available to Instructure staff via our internal content management system. Instructure's policies and plans are evaluated against both SOC 2 and ISO 27001 standards."				SEF-01	"Establish, document, approve, communicate, apply, evaluate and maintain
policies and procedures for Security Incident Management, E-Discovery, and Cloud
Forensics. Review and update the policies and procedures at least annually.
"	Security Incident Management Policy and Procedures	"Security Incident Management, E-Discovery, & Cloud Forensics"
SEF-01.2	"Are policies and procedures reviewed and updated annually?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	At least annually.							
SEF-02.1	"Are policies and procedures for timely management of security incidents established,
documented, approved, communicated, applied, evaluated, and maintained?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	Please see SEF-01.1				SEF-02	"Establish, document, approve, communicate, apply, evaluate and maintain
policies and procedures for the timely management of security incidents. Review
and update the policies and procedures at least annually.
"	Service Management Policy and Procedures	
SEF-02.2	"Are policies and procedures for timely management of security incidents reviewed
and updated at least annually?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	At least annually.							
SEF-03.1	"Is a security incident response plan that includes relevant internal departments,
impacted CSCs, and other business-critical relationships (such as supply-chain)
established, documented, approved, communicated, applied, evaluated, and maintained?
"	Yes	CSP-owned					SEF-03	"'Establish, document, approve, communicate, apply, evaluate and maintain
a security incident response plan, which includes but is not limited to: relevant
internal departments, impacted CSCs, and other business critical relationships
(such as supply-chain) that may be impacted.'
"	Incident Response Plans	
SEF-04.1	"Is the security incident response plan tested and updated for effectiveness,
as necessary, at planned intervals or upon significant organizational or environmental
changes?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	Please see SEF-01.1				SEF-04	"Test and update as necessary incident response plans at planned intervals
or upon significant organizational or environmental changes for effectiveness.
"	Incident Response Testing	
SEF-05.1	"Are information security incident metrics established and monitored?
"	Yes	CSP-owned					SEF-05	"Establish and monitor information security incident metrics.
"	Incident Response Metrics	
SEF-06.1	"Are processes, procedures, and technical measures supporting business processes
to triage security-related events defined, implemented, and evaluated?
"	Yes	CSP-owned					SEF-06	"Define, implement and evaluate processes, procedures and technical
measures supporting business processes to triage security-related events.
"	Event Triage Processes	
SEF-07.1	"Are processes, procedures, and technical measures for security breach notifications
defined and implemented?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	"Per requirements in place by FERPA, impacted customers will be notified within 24 hours in the event of a FERPA violation. All customers are to be notified within 48 hours per contractual agreements"				SEF-07	"Define and implement, processes, procedures and technical measures
for security breach notifications. Report security breaches and assumed security
breaches including any relevant supply chain breaches, as per applicable SLAs,
laws and regulations.
"	Security Breach Notification	
SEF-07.2	"Are security breaches and assumed security breaches reported (including any
relevant supply chain breaches) as per applicable SLAs, laws, and regulations?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	Please see SEF-07.1							
SEF-08.1	"Are points of contact maintained for applicable regulation authorities, national
and local law enforcement, and other legal jurisdictional authorities?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	"Instructure engages with external counsel, security and privacy organizations, and education-industry associations where relevant to help ensure security and privacy compliance. For example, we maintain a Privacy Advisory Board. The Data Usage and Privacy Advisory Board includes a range of education stakeholders and experts - teachers, researchers, data scientists, administrators, and privacy experts - to discuss the questions that come with the use of data. We also work with a global research firm to ensure we are thinking about privacy from all angles."				SEF-08	"Maintain points of contact for applicable regulation authorities,
national and local law enforcement, and other legal jurisdictional authorities.
"	Points of Contact Maintenance	
STA-01.1	"Are policies and procedures implementing the shared security responsibility
model (SSRM) within the organization established, documented, approved, communicated,
applied, evaluated, and maintained?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	"Instructure maintains a responsibility matrix ""decoder ring"" which documents the security obligations of involved parties. All Security policies and plans also document roles and responsibilities using the SSRM model."				STA-01	"Establish, document, approve, communicate, apply, evaluate and maintain
policies and procedures for the application of the Shared Security Responsibility
Model (SSRM) within the organization. Review and update the policies and procedures
at least annually.
"	SSRM Policy and Procedures	"Supply Chain Management, Transparency, and Accountability"
STA-01.2	"Are the policies and procedures that apply the SSRM reviewed and updated annually?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	At least annually.							
STA-02.1	"Is the SSRM applied, documented, implemented, and managed throughout the supply
chain for the cloud service offering?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	"Instructure utilizes several third party organizations to host its products for customers. As part of helping ensure third party organizations are securely providing services to Instructure, Instructure's security team performs thorough vetting prior to, and periodically throughout the relationship with third party vendors.
 
 To help provide reasonable security assurance of the security practices and mechanisms at these third parties, Instructure requests and reviews copies of the third party assurance reports provided by these organizations on an ongoing basis to confirm these controls are operating effectively. Legal contracts with these third parties also include security provisions to help ensure the implementation and operation of effective security controls at the third party organizations."				STA-02	"Apply, document, implement and manage the SSRM throughout the supply
chain for the cloud service offering.
"	SSRM Supply Chain	
STA-03.1	"Is the CSC given SSRM guidance detailing information about SSRM applicability
throughout the supply chain?
"	Yes	CSP-owned					STA-03	"Provide SSRM Guidance to the CSC detailing information about the
SSRM applicability throughout the supply chain.
"	SSRM Guidance	
STA-04.1	"Is the shared ownership and applicability of all CSA CCM controls delineated
according to the SSRM for the cloud service offering?
"	Yes	CSP-owned					STA-04	"Delineate the shared ownership and applicability of all CSA CCM controls
according to the SSRM for the cloud service offering.
"	SSRM Control Ownership	
STA-05.1	"Is SSRM documentation for all cloud services the organization uses reviewed
and validated?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	Please see STA-02.1				STA-05	"Review and validate SSRM documentation for all cloud services offerings
the organization uses.
"	SSRM Documentation Review	
STA-06.1	"Are the portions of the SSRM the organization is responsible for implemented,
operated, audited, or assessed?
"	Yes	CSP-owned					STA-06	"Implement, operate, and audit or assess the portions of the SSRM
which the organization is responsible for.
"	SSRM Control Implementation	
STA-07.1	"Is an inventory of all supply chain relationships developed and maintained?
"	Yes	CSP-owned					STA-07	"Develop and maintain an inventory of all supply chain relationships.
"	Supply Chain Inventory	
STA-08.1	"Are risk factors associated with all organizations within the supply chain
periodically reviewed by CSPs?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	Please see STA-02.1				STA-08	"CSPs periodically review risk factors associated with all organizations
within their supply chain.
"	Supply Chain Risk Management	
STA-09.1	"Do service agreements between CSPs and CSCs (tenants) incorporate at least the following mutually agreed upon provisions and/or terms?
• Scope, characteristics, and location of business relationship and services offered
• Information security requirements (including SSRM)
• Change management process
• Logging and monitoring capability
• Incident management and communication procedures
• Right to audit and third-party assessment
• Service termination
• Interoperability and portability requirements
• Data privacy
"	Yes	CSP-owned					STA-09	"Service agreements between CSPs and CSCs (tenants) must incorporate at least the following mutually-agreed upon provisions and/or terms:
• Scope, characteristics and location of business relationship and services offered
• Information security requirements (including SSRM)
• Change management process
• Logging and monitoring capability
• Incident management and communication procedures
• Right to audit and third party assessment
• Service termination
• Interoperability and portability requirements
• Data privacy
"	Primary Service and Contractual Agreement	
STA-10.1	"Are supply chain agreements between CSPs and CSCs reviewed at least annually?
"	Yes	CSP-owned					STA-10	"Review supply chain agreements between CSPs and CSCs at least annually.
"	Supply Chain Agreement Review	
STA-11.1	"Is there a process for conducting internal assessments at least annually to
confirm the conformance and effectiveness of standards, policies, procedures,
and SLA activities?
"	Yes	CSP-owned					STA-11	"Define and implement a process for conducting internal assessments
to confirm conformance and effectiveness of standards, policies, procedures,
and service level agreement activities at least annually.
"	Internal Compliance Testing	
STA-12.1	"Are policies that require all supply chain CSPs to comply with information
security, confidentiality, access control, privacy, audit, personnel policy, and
service level requirements and standards implemented?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	Please see STA-02.1				STA-12	"Implement policies requiring all CSPs throughout the supply chain
to comply with information security, confidentiality, access control, privacy,
audit, personnel policy and service level requirements and standards.
"	Supply Chain Service Agreement Compliance	
STA-13.1	"Are supply chain partner IT governance policies and procedures reviewed periodically?
"	Yes	CSP-owned					STA-13	"Periodically review the organization's supply chain partners' IT
governance policies and procedures.
"	Supply Chain Governance Review	
STA-14.1	"Is a process to conduct periodic security assessments for all supply chain
organizations defined and implemented?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	Vendor (Third-Party) Security and Risk Reviews are conducted and documented periodically.				STA-14	"Define and implement a process for conducting security assessments
periodically for all organizations within the supply chain.
"	Supply Chain Data Security Assessment	
TVM-01.1	"Are policies and procedures established, documented, approved, communicated,
applied, evaluated, and maintained to identify, report, and prioritize the remediation
of vulnerabilities to protect systems against vulnerability exploitation?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	"Instructure maintains a Vulnerability Management Policy which describes how Instructure identifies, assesses, and mitigates vulnerabilities. The policy applies to all of Instructure, including, but not limited to, Instructure personnel, systems, processes, buildings, and other assets.Vulnerability Management is based on the ongoing, repeating process of identifying vulnerabilities, assessing vulnerabilities, and mitigating vulnerabilities base on overall risk rating. Instructure's security team conducts regular vulnerability scans of production environments using both off-the-shelf and custom internally-built tools. We also contract a third-party to perform ongoing external penetration testing, the results of which we publish publicly online annually."				TVM-01	"Establish, document, approve, communicate, apply, evaluate and maintain
policies and procedures to identify, report and prioritize the remediation of
vulnerabilities, in order to protect systems against vulnerability exploitation.
Review and update the policies and procedures at least annually.
"	Threat and Vulnerability Management Policy and Procedures	Threat & Vulnerability Management
TVM-01.2	"Are threat and vulnerability management policies and procedures reviewed and
updated at least annually?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	At least annually.							
TVM-02.1	"Are policies and procedures to protect against malware on managed assets established,
documented, approved, communicated, applied, evaluated, and maintained?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	"Instructure has a robust information security program that runs on a continuous, PDCA-improvement cycle. To mitigate malware and ransomware, we utilize a number of security practices as recommended by the United States Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA).
 On all Instructure devices, we utilize enhanced endpoint detection and response (EDR) software with alert triggering on all devices, above and beyond standard antivirus."				TVM-02	"Establish, document, approve, communicate, apply, evaluate and maintain
policies and procedures to protect against malware on managed assets. Review
and update the policies and procedures at least annually.
"	Malware Protection Policy and Procedures	
TVM-02.2	"Are asset management and malware protection policies and procedures reviewed
and updated at least annually?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	At least annually.							
TVM-03.1	"Are processes, procedures, and technical measures defined, implemented, and
evaluated to enable scheduled and emergency responses to vulnerability identifications
(based on the identified risk)?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	"Instructure schedules remediation of vulnerabilities based on Critical, High, Medium, or Low risks. For example, if a Critical (emergency) security risk is detected that has a near-and-present-danger, fixing the vulnerability is given the highest priority by Instructure’s security and engineering teams and security patches as such will be applied within twenty-four (24) hours by best commercial efforts. In most cases, vulnerabilities can be fixed using a hot patch without incurring any downtime to production environments."				TVM-03	"Define, implement and evaluate processes, procedures and technical
measures to enable both scheduled and emergency responses to vulnerability identifications,
based on the identified risk.
"	Vulnerability Remediation Schedule	
TVM-04.1	"Are processes, procedures, and technical measures defined, implemented, and
evaluated to update detection tools, threat signatures, and compromise indicators
weekly (or more frequent) basis?
"	Yes	CSP-owned					TVM-04	"Define, implement and evaluate processes, procedures and technical
measures to update detection tools, threat signatures, and indicators of compromise
on a weekly, or more frequent basis.
"	Detection Updates	
TVM-05.1	"Are processes, procedures, and technical measures defined, implemented, and
evaluated to identify updates for applications that use third-party or open-source
libraries (according to the organization's vulnerability management policy)?
"	Yes	CSP-owned					TVM-05	"Define, implement and evaluate processes, procedures and technical
measures to identify updates for applications which use third party or open
source libraries according to the organization's vulnerability management policy.
"	External Library Vulnerabilities	
TVM-06.1	"Are processes, procedures, and technical measures defined, implemented, and
evaluated for periodic, independent, third-party penetration testing?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	"Instructure performs third-party penetration tests annually for its products. New issues are discovered and remediated as soon as they are uncovered. Annually, we release a report of our bug bounty program containing the previous year's findings, available at: https://inst.bid/trust

Instructure welcomes customer participation in our crowd-sourced bug bounty program facilitated by BugCrowd."				TVM-06	"Define, implement and evaluate processes, procedures and technical
measures for the periodic performance of penetration testing by independent
third parties.
"	Penetration Testing	
TVM-07.1	"Are processes, procedures, and technical measures defined, implemented, and
evaluated for vulnerability detection on organizationally managed assets at least
monthly?
"	Yes	CSP-owned					TVM-07	"Define, implement and evaluate processes, procedures and technical
measures for the detection of vulnerabilities on organizationally managed assets
at least monthly.
"	Vulnerability Identification	
TVM-08.1	"Is vulnerability remediation prioritized using a risk-based model from an
industry-recognized framework?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	"At Instructure, we assess security risks based on two factors: Impact and Likelihood. 
 _ Impact: Impact is the perceived, calculated, or actual impact that might occur if the identified vulnerability is exploited.
 _ Likelihood: Likelihood is the probability of the vulnerability being exploited.
 Each of these factors are then rated Critical, High, Medium, or Low. For example, if a Critical security risk is detected that has a near-and-present-danger, fixing the vulnerability is given the highest priority by Instructure’s security and engineering teams and security patches as such will be applied within twenty-four (24) hours by best commercial efforts. In most cases, vulnerabilities can be fixed using a hot patch without incurring any downtime to production environments. Other patches to the operating system, application software, and code libraries are rated accordingly. The Overall Risk is calculated by taking the lesser of the two values. (e.g., if Likelihood = Low, and the Impact = High, the Overall Risk = Low). The Overall Risk is then used to prioritize the mitigation of vulnerabilities. We will not hesitate to raise a security risk-level where necessary for the safety and protection of our customers. As a SaaS platform, we have an industry-standard SLA for remediation of vulnerabilities. Our work remediating any vulnerabilities found is always at no additional cost to our customers."				TVM-08	"Use a risk-based model for effective prioritization of vulnerability
remediation using an industry recognized framework.
"	Vulnerability Prioritization	
TVM-09.1	"Is a process defined and implemented to track and report vulnerability identification
and remediation activities that include stakeholder notification?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	"Any vulnerabilities detected during penetration tests (internal or external) are filed to our issue-tracking system, Jira. Once entered, they are assigned internal vulnerability ranking according to the OWASP risk rating framework based on likelihood and impact, outlined in TVM-08.1. These issues are tracked through to resolution in accordance with company policy and industry best practice recommendations. Our processes are evaluated against both SOC 2 and ISO 27001 standards."				TVM-09	"Define and implement a process for tracking and reporting vulnerability
identification and remediation activities that includes stakeholder notification.
"	Vulnerability Management Reporting	
TVM-10.1	"Are metrics for vulnerability identification and remediation established,
monitored, and reported at defined intervals?
"	Yes	CSP-owned					TVM-10	"Establish, monitor and report metrics for vulnerability identification
and remediation at defined intervals.
"	Vulnerability Management Metrics	
UEM-01.1	"Are policies and procedures established, documented, approved, communicated,
applied, evaluated, and maintained for all endpoints?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	"Instructure maintains both a Network Security Policy and a IT Acceptable Use Policy which outline procedures, processed and policies for all endpoints on both production and corporate networks. These policies are evaluated against both SOC 2 and ISO 27001 standards."				UEM-01	"Establish, document, approve, communicate, apply, evaluate and maintain
policies and procedures for all endpoints. Review and update the policies and
procedures at least annually.
"	Endpoint Devices Policy and Procedures	Universal Endpoint Management
UEM-01.2	"Are universal endpoint management policies and procedures reviewed and updated
at least annually?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	At least annually.							
UEM-02.1	"Is there a defined, documented, applicable and evaluated list containing approved
services, applications, and the sources of applications (stores) acceptable for
use by endpoints when accessing or storing organization-managed data?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	"Instructure maintains an IT Acceptable Use Policy that addresses the acceptable use of mobile devices and outlines prohibited uses such as jailbroken devices, storing customer data, or using devices without Instructure's MDM-profile present. Within the IT Acceptable Use Policy, we outline Mobile Device Usage policy which defines approved usage parameters and applications only from approved App Stores can be loaded onto a mobile device.
 
 Instructure also maintains a Bring Your Own Device (BYOD) policy which prohibits a number of insecure parameters and ensures BYOD devices only connect through trusted networks."				UEM-02	"Define, document, apply and evaluate a list of approved services,
applications and sources of applications (stores) acceptable for use by endpoints
when accessing or storing organization-managed data.
"	Application and Service Approval	
UEM-03.1	"Is a process defined and implemented to validate endpoint device compatibility
with operating systems and applications?
"	Yes	CSP-owned					UEM-03	"Define and implement a process for the validation of the endpoint
device's compatibility with operating systems and applications.
"	Compatibility	
UEM-04.1	"Is an inventory of all endpoints used and maintained to store and access company
data?
"	Yes	CSP-owned					UEM-04	"Maintain an inventory of all endpoints used to store and access company
data.
"	Endpoint Inventory	
UEM-05.1	"Are processes, procedures, and technical measures defined, implemented and
evaluated, to enforce policies and controls for all endpoints permitted to access
systems and/or store, transmit, or process organizational data?
"	Yes	CSP-owned					UEM-05	"Define, implement and evaluate processes, procedures and technical
measures to enforce policies and controls for all endpoints permitted to access
systems and/or store, transmit, or process organizational data.
"	Endpoint Management	
UEM-06.1	"Are all relevant interactive-use endpoints configured to require an automatic
lock screen?
"	Yes	CSP-owned					UEM-06	"Configure all relevant interactive-use endpoints to require an automatic
lock screen.
"	Automatic Lock Screen	
UEM-07.1	"Are changes to endpoint operating systems, patch levels, and/or applications
managed through the organizational change management process?
"	Yes	CSP-owned					UEM-07	"Manage changes to endpoint operating systems, patch levels, and/or
applications through the company's change management processes.
"	Operating Systems	
UEM-08.1	"Is information protected from unauthorized disclosure on managed endpoints
with storage encryption?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	"Instructure utilizes endpoint security software to centrally manage employee devices which includes but is not limited to:
 _ Full disk encryption
 _ Mobile Device Management (MDM)
 _ Endpoint detection and response (EDR)"				UEM-08	"Protect information from unauthorized disclosure on managed endpoint
devices with storage encryption.
"	Storage Encryption	
UEM-09.1	"Are anti-malware detection and prevention technology services configured on
managed endpoints?
"	Yes	CSP-owned					UEM-09	"Configure managed endpoints with anti-malware detection and prevention
technology and services.
"	Anti-Malware Detection and Prevention	
UEM-10.1	"Are software firewalls configured on managed endpoints?
"	Yes	CSP-owned					UEM-10	"Configure managed endpoints with properly configured software firewalls.
"	Software Firewall	
UEM-11.1	"Are managed endpoints configured with data loss prevention (DLP) technologies
and rules per a risk assessment?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	"Instructure maintains policies, processes (monitoring) and technologies that enforce DLP within our environment."				UEM-11	"Configure managed endpoints with Data Loss Prevention (DLP) technologies
and rules in accordance with a risk assessment.
"	Data Loss Prevention	
UEM-12.1	"Are remote geolocation capabilities enabled for all managed mobile endpoints?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	"Yes, wherever possible."				UEM-12	"Enable remote geo-location capabilities for all managed mobile endpoints.
"	Remote Locate	
UEM-13.1	"Are processes, procedures, and technical measures defined, implemented, and
evaluated to enable remote company data deletion on managed endpoint devices?
"	Yes	CSP-owned	Instructure maintains a centralized Mobile Device Management (MDM) solution which provides the capability to remote wipe the data on employee devices where required.				UEM-13	"Define, implement and evaluate processes, procedures and technical
measures to enable the deletion of company data remotely on managed endpoint
devices.
"	Remote Wipe	
UEM-14.1	"Are processes, procedures, and technical and/or contractual measures defined,
implemented, and evaluated to maintain proper security of third-party endpoints
with access to organizational assets?
"	Yes	CSP-owned					UEM-14	"Define, implement and evaluate processes, procedures and technical
and/or contractual measures to maintain proper security of third-party endpoints
with access to organizational assets.
"	Third-Party Endpoint Security Posture	
End of Standard											
"© Copyright 2023 Cloud Security Alliance - All rights reserved.  You may download, store, display on your computer, view, print, and link to the Cloud Security Alliance “Consensus Assessments Initiative Questionnaire (CAIQ) Version 4.0.3” at http://www.cloudsecurityalliance.org subject to the following: (a) the Consensus Assessments Initiative Questionnaire v4.0.3 may be used solely for your personal, informational, non-commercial use; (b) the Consensus Assessments Initiative Questionnaire v4.0.3 may not be modified or altered in any way; (c) the Consensus Assessments Initiative Questionnaire v4.0.3 may not be redistributed; and (d) the trademark, copyright or other notices may not be removed. You may quote portions of the Consensus Assessments Initiative Questionnaire v4.0.3 as permitted by the Fair Use provisions of the United States Copyright Act, provided that you attribute the portions to the Cloud Security Alliance Consensus Assessments Initiative Questionnaire Version 4.0.3. If you are interested in obtaining a license to this #material for other usages not addresses in the copyright notice, please contact info@cloudsecurityalliance.org. "											