 Payment Card Industry  Data Security Standard    Attestation of Compliance for Self-Assessment Questionnaire D for Service Providers  For use with PCI DSS Version 4.0 Revision 2 Publication Date: August 2023  Section 1: Assessment Information  Instructions for Submission This document must be completed as a declaration of the results of the entity’s self-assessment against the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS) Requirements and Testing Procedures. Complete all sections: The entity is responsible for ensuring that each section is completed by the relevant parties, as applicable. Contact the entity(ies) to which the Attestation of Compliance (AOC) will be submitted for reporting and submission procedures. This AOC reflects the results documented in an associated Self-Assessment Questionnaire (SAQ).   Capitalized terms used but not otherwise defined in this document have the meanings set forth in the PCI DSS Self-Assessment Questionnaire. Part 1. Contact Information  Part 1a. Assessed Entity  Company name:  Instructure, Inc.  DBA (doing business as):  Not Applicable  Company mailing address:  6330 S 3000 E #700, Cottonwood Heights, UT 84121  Company main website:  https://www.instructure.com  Company contact name:  Deepa Talreja  Company contact title:   Director, Security Compliance  Contact phone number:  800.203.6755  Contact e-mail address:  security@instructure.com  Part 1b. Assessor   Provide the following information for all assessors involved in the assessment. If there was no assessor for a given assessor type, enter Not Applicable.  PCI SSC Internal Security Assessor(s)  ISA name(s):  Not Applicable  Qualified Security Assessor  Company name:  Moss Adams  Company mailing address:   999 Third Ave. #2800, Seattle, WA 98104  Company website:   https://mossadams.com  Lead Assessor Name:  Trevor Lapointe  Assessor phone number:  214.242.7420  Assessor e-mail address:   trevor.lapointe@mossadams.com  Assessor certificate number:  QSA, 206-680    Part 2. Executive Summary  Part 2a. Scope Verification  Services that were INCLUDED in the scope of the PCI DSS Assessment (select all that apply):  Name of service(s) assessed:  Instructure Canvas Catalog Payment Redirector/iFrame  Type of service(s) assessed:  Hosting Provider:  Applications / software  Hardware  Infrastructure / Network  Physical space (co-location)  Storage  Web-hosting services  Security services  3-D Secure Hosting Provider  Multi-Tenant Service Provider  Other Hosting (specify):        Managed Services:  Systems security services  IT support  Physical security  Terminal Management System  Other services (specify):         Payment Processing:  POI / card present  Internet / e-commerce  MOTO / Call Center  ATM  Other processing (specify):           Account Management   Fraud and Chargeback   Payment Gateway/Switch   Back-Office Services   Issuer Processing   Prepaid Services   Billing Management   Loyalty Programs   Records Management   Clearing and Settlement   Merchant Services   Tax/Government Payments   Network Provider   Others (specify):        Note: These categories are provided for assistance only and are not intended to limit or predetermine an entity’s service description. If these categories do not apply to the assessed service, complete “Others.” If it is not clear whether a category could apply to the assessed service, consult with the entity(ies) to which this AOC will be submitted.   Part 2.  Executive Summary (continued)  Part 2a. Scope Verification (continued)   Services that are provided by the service provider but were NOT INCLUDED in the scope of the PCI DSS Assessment (select all that apply):   Name of service(s) not assessed:  Other components of Canvas Catalog  Type of service(s) not assessed:  Hosting Provider:  Applications / software  Hardware  Infrastructure / Network  Physical space (co-location)  Storage  Web-hosting services  Security services  3-D Secure Hosting Provider  Multi-Tenant Service Provider  Other Hosting (specify):        Managed Services:  Systems security services  IT support  Physical security  Terminal Management System  Other services (specify):         Payment Processing:  POI / card present  Internet / e-commerce  MOTO / Call Center  ATM  Other processing (specify):           Account Management   Fraud and Chargeback   Payment Gateway/Switch   Back-Office Services   Issuer Processing   Prepaid Services   Billing Management   Loyalty Programs   Records Management   Clearing and Settlement   Merchant Services   Tax/Government Payments   Network Provider   Others (specify):        Provide a brief explanation why any checked services were not included in the assessment:  The Instructure Canvas Catalog Payment Redirector/iFrame Service was a separate service from the rest of the Canvas Catalog SaaS product, including the code base and the hosting environment. Changes to the rest of the Canvas Catalog SaaS product did not affect the security of the Payment Redirector Service.   Part 2b. Description of Role with Payment Cards  Describe how the business stores, processes, and/or transmits account data.  Instructure does not store, process, or transmit cardholder data.  Describe how the business is otherwise involved in or has the ability to impact the security of its customers’ account data.  Instructure's Canvas Catalog product allows users to select courses that require a fee in order to take the course. When the user has completed their selection of courses to purchase, the user is redirected to a payment provider (or, in one case, is redirected to an iFrame) where the user inputs their payment information to complete the purchase. The software service that handles this redirection is called Canvas Catalog Payment Redirector. When the payment is successful,  the Payment Redirector receives confirmation from the payment provider that the payment was successful. Canvas Catalog allows the student to proceed with the purchased content. Therefore, cardholder data originates at a user's browser and is transmitted directly to a third-party payment processor along with payment details, bypassing Instructure's systems. Since Instructure serves the HTML where the third-party iFrame is included or which includes the link to the third-party payment processor's site, certain PCI Requirements apply to its environment.  Describe system components that could impact the security of account data.   Instructure's web environment which serves the HTML that serves up the third-party iFrame, as well as all authentication mechanisms and maintenance processes to support the environment.  Part 2.  Executive Summary (continued)  Part 2c. Description of Payment Card Environment   Provide a high-level description of the environment covered by this assessment. For example: • Connections into and out of the cardholder data environment (CDE). • Critical system components within the CDE, such as POI devices, databases, web servers, etc., and any other necessary payment components, as applicable. • System components that could impact the security of account data.   In-scope processes include the collection of payments that were accepted via third-party payment processors via an iFrame or URL Redirects. Payment card data flowed directly from the user's browser to payment processor servers. The iFrame/URL Redirect references were hosted on servers within AWS. The iFrame/URL Redirect processes above helped make sure that no cardholder data was stored, processed, or transmitted by design by Instructure.  Technologies in use include the following:  - Ecommerce website and iFrame/URL Redirect  - Linux web servers serving web code  Indicate whether the environment includes segmentation to reduce the scope of the assessment.  (Refer to “Segmentation” section of PCI DSS for guidance on segmentation.)    Yes     No   Part 2d. In-Scope Locations/Facilities  List all types of physical locations/facilities⎯for example, corporate offices, data centers, call centers, and mail rooms⎯in scope for the PCI DSS assessment.   Facility Type  Total number of locations (How many locations of this type are in scope)  Location(s) of facility (city, country)  Example: Data centers  3  Boston, MA, USA  Data centers  4  AWS US East AWS AP Southeast AWS CA Central AWS EU Central                                                                                                                                                                          Part 2.  Executive Summary (continued)  Part 2e. PCI SSC Validated Products and Solutions  Does the entity use any item identified on any PCI SSC Lists of Validated Products and Solutions♦?    Yes     No  Provide the following information regarding each item the entity uses from PCI SSC’s Lists of Validated Products and Solutions.   Name of PCI SSC- validated Product or Solution  Version of Product or Solution  PCI SSC Standard to which product or solution was validated  PCI SSC listing reference number  Expiry date of listing (YYYY-MM-DD)  Not Applicable  Not Applicable  Not Applicable  Not Applicable  Not Applicable                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ♦  For purposes of this document, ”Lists of Validated Products and Solutions” means the lists of validated products, solutions, and/or components appearing on the PCI SSC website (www.pcisecuritystandards.org)⎯for example, 3DS Software Development Kits, Approved PTS Devices, Validated Payment Software, Payment Applications (PA-DSS), Point to Point Encryption (P2PE) solutions, Software-Based PIN Entry on COTS (SPoC) solutions, and Contactless Payments on COTS (CPoC) solutions.  Part 2.  Executive Summary (continued)  Part 2f. Third-Party Service Providers  For the services being validated, does the entity have relationships with one or more third-party service providers that:  • Store, process, or transmit account data on the entity’s behalf (for example, payment gateways, payment processors, payment service providers (PSPs), and off-site storage)   Yes      No   • Manage system components included in the scope of the entity’s PCI DSS assessment⎯for example, via network security control services, anti-malware services, security incident and event management (SIEM), contact and call centers, web-hosting services, and IaaS, PaaS, SaaS, and FaaS cloud providers.   Yes      No   • Could impact the security of the entity’s CDE⎯for example, vendors providing support via remote access, and/or bespoke software developers.   Yes      No   If Yes:   Name of service provider:  Description of service(s) provided:  Amazon Web Services  Infrastructure-as-a-Service (IaaS)  (Payment Processors)  (Payment processors were not included as "Instructure service providers" since Instructure integrated with payment processors upon request of Instructure clients. Instructure clients managed the relationship with the payment processors.)                                                                                                                  Note: Requirement 12.8 applies to all entities in this list.   Part 2.  Executive Summary (continued)  Part 2g. Summary of Assessment (SAQ Section 2 and related appendices)  Indicate below all responses provided within each principal PCI DSS requirement.  For all requirements identified as either “Not Applicable” or “Not Tested,” complete the “Justification for Approach” table below. Note: One table to be completed for each service covered by this AOC. Additional copies of this section are available on the PCI SSC website.  Name of Service Assessed: Instructure Canvas Catalog Payment Redirector/iFrame  PCI DSS Requirement  Requirement Responses More than one response may be selected for a given requirement.  Indicate all responses that apply.  In Place  In Place with CCW  Not Applicable  Not Tested  Not in Place  Requirement 1:            Requirement 2:            Requirement 3:            Requirement 4:            Requirement 5:            Requirement 6:            Requirement 7:            Requirement 8:            Requirement 9:            Requirement 10:            Requirement 11:            Requirement 12:            Appendix A1:            Appendix A2:            Justification for Approach  For any Not Applicable responses, identify which sub-requirements were not applicable and the reason.   1.1.1 - 1.5.1, 2.1.1 - 2.2.1, 2.2.3 - 2.3.2, 5.1.1 - 5.4.1, 6.1.1 - 6.2.4, 6.3.2, 6.4.1, 6.4.2, 6.5.1 - 6.5.6, 7.1.1 - 7.3.3, 8.1.1, 8.1.2, 8.2.4, 8.2.6 - 8.2.8, 8.3.2, 8.3.8, 8.3.11 - 8.6.3, 10.1.1 - 10.6.3, 11.1.1 - 11.3.1.3, 11.4.1 - 11.4.5, 11.5.1 - 11.5.2, 12.1.1 - 12.3.4, 12.5.1, 12.5.3 - 12.7.1, 12.10.2 - 12.10.7 : Instructure's scope of services is not applicable to these requirements. 3.1.1 - 3.7.9, 9.4.1, 9.4.1.1, 9.4.2 - 9.4.4, 9.4.5.1, 9.4.6 : Instructure does not store account data. 4.1.1 - 4.2.2 : Instructure does not transmit account data. 6.4.3, 11.6.1, 12.5.2.1 : Instructure opted not to test best practice requirements this year. 6.5.2, 11.3.2.1 : Instructure had no significant changes this year. 8.2.3 : Instructure did not have access to customer premises. 8.3.9 : MFA is required for all access to the environment. 8.3.10, 8.3.10.1 : Instructure's customers did not have remote access to the environment. 9.1.1 - 9.4.7: Instructure did not have physical access to cardholder data. 9.5.1 - 9.5.1.3, Appendix A2 : Instructure's scope of services did not utilize POI devices. 10.7.2, 10.7.3 : Instructure did not experience any security control failures. 11.4.6 : Segmentation is not used. 11.4.7, Appendix A1 : Instructure is not a multi-tenant service provider.   For any Not Tested responses, identify which sub-requirements were not tested and the reason.  Not Applicable    Section 2: Self-Assessment Questionnaire D for Service Providers Self-assessment completion date:  2024-06-10  Were any requirements in the SAQ unable to be met due to a legal constraint?   Yes   No    Section 3: Validation and Attestation Details Part 3. PCI DSS Validation  This AOC is based on results noted in SAQ D (Section 2), dated (Self-assessment completion date 2024-06-10). Indicate below whether a full or partial PCI DSS assessment was completed:    Full – All requirements have been assessed therefore no requirements were marked as Not Tested in the SAQ.    Partial – One or more requirements have not been assessed and were therefore marked as Not Tested in the SAQ. Any requirement not assessed is noted as Not Tested in Part 2g above.  Based on the results documented in the SAQ D noted above, each signatory identified in any of Parts 3b−3d, as applicable, assert(s) the following compliance status for the entity identified in Part 2 of this document.  Select one:   Compliant: All sections of the PCI DSS SAQ are complete, and all assessed requirements are marked as being either 1) In Place, 2) In Place with CCW, or 3) Not Applicable, resulting in an overall COMPLIANT rating; thereby Instructure, Inc. has demonstrated compliance with all PCI DSS requirements included in this SAQ except those noted as Not Tested above.    Non-Compliant:  Not all sections of the PCI DSS SAQ are complete, or one or more requirements are marked as Not in Place, resulting in an overall NON-COMPLIANT rating, thereby (Service Provider Company Name) has not demonstrated compliance with the PCI DSS requirements included in this SAQ. Target Date for Compliance: YYYY-MM-DD An entity submitting this form with a Non-Compliant status may be required to complete the Action Plan in Part 4 of this document. Confirm with the entity to which this AOC will be submitted before completing Part 4.    Compliant but with Legal exception: One or more assessed requirements in the PCI DSS SAQ are marked as Not in Place due to a legal restriction that prevents the requirement from being met and all other assessed requirements are marked as being either 1) In Place, 2) In Place with CCW, or 3) Not Applicable, resulting in an overall COMPLIANT BUT WITH LEGAL EXCEPTION rating; thereby (Service Provider Company Name) has demonstrated compliance with all PCI DSS requirements included in this SAQ except those noted as Not Tested above or as Not in Place due to a legal restriction. This option requires additional review from the entity to which this AOC will be submitted. If selected, complete the following:      Affected Requirement  Details of how legal constraint prevents  requirement from being met                                                                           Part 3a. Service Provider Acknowledgement   Signatory(s) confirms: (Select all that apply)    PCI DSS Self-Assessment Questionnaire D, Version 4.0 was completed according to the instructions therein.    All information within the above-referenced SAQ and in this attestation fairly represents the results of the entity’s assessment in all material respects.    PCI DSS controls will be maintained at all times, as applicable to the entity’s environment.    Part 3b. Service Provider Attestation  Signature - Deepa Talreja  Signature of Service Provider Executive Officer   6/12/2024Date:        Service Provider Executive Officer Name: Deepa Talreja  Title: Director, Security Compliance   Part 3c. Qualified Security Assessor (QSA) Acknowledgement   If a QSA was involved or assisted with this assessment, indicate the role performed:   QSA performed testing procedures.    QSA provided other assistance.  If selected, describe all role(s) performed:         Signature - Trevor Lapointe 6/12/2024Signature of Lead QSA   Date:        Lead QSA Name: Trevor Lapointe   Signature - Jonathan Smith 6/12/2024Signature of Duly Authorized Officer of QSA Company   Date:        Duly Authorized Officer Name: Jonathan Smith  QSA Company: Moss Adams LLP   Part 3d. PCI SSC Internal Security Assessor (ISA) Involvement   If an ISA(s) was involved or assisted with this assessment, indicate the role performed:   ISA(s) performed testing procedures.    ISA(s) provided other assistance.  If selected, describe all role(s) performed:         Part 4. Action Plan for Non-Compliant Requirements  Only complete Part 4 upon request of the entity to which this AOC will be submitted, and only if the Assessment has a Non-Compliant status noted in Section 3.  If asked to complete this section, select the appropriate response for “Compliant to PCI DSS Requirements” for each requirement below. For any “No” responses, include the date the entity expects to be compliant with the requirement and a brief description of the actions being taken to meet the requirement.   PCI DSS Requirement  Description of Requirement  Compliant to PCI DSS Requirements (Select One)  Remediation Date and Actions  (If “NO” selected for any Requirement)  YES  NO  1  Install and maintain network security controls              2  Apply secure configurations to all system components              3  Protect stored account data             4  Protect cardholder data with strong cryptography during transmission over open, public networks             5  Protect all systems and networks from malicious software              6  Develop and maintain secure systems and software             7  Restrict access to system components and cardholder data by business need to know             8  Identify users and authenticate access to system components             9  Restrict physical access to cardholder data             10  Log and monitor all access to system components and cardholder data             11  Test security systems and networks regularly             12  Support information security with organizational policies and programs             Appendix A1  Additional PCI DSS Requirements for Multi-Tenant Service Providers             Appendix A2  Additional PCI DSS Requirements for Entities using SSL/Early TLS for Card-Present POS POI Terminal Connections              