HECVAT - Full | Vendor Response				Version 3.04																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																											
Vendor Response																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																															
DATE-01	Date	5/20/2024																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																													
General Information																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																															
"In order to protect the Institution and its systems, vendors whose products and/or services will access and/or host institutional data must complete the Higher Education Community Vendor Assessment Toolkit (HECVAT). Throughout this tool, anywhere where the term data is used, this is an all-encompassing term including at least data and metadata. Answers will be reviewed by Institution security analysts upon submittal. This process will assist the institution in preventing breaches of protected information and comply with Institution policy, state, and federal law. This is intended for use by vendors participating in a Third Party Security Assessment and should be completed by a vendor. Review the Instructions tab for further guidance."																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																															
GNRL-01 through GNRL-08; populated by the Vendor																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																															
GNRL-01	Vendor Name	Instructure																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																													
GNRL-02	Product Name	Canvas LMS																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																													
GNRL-03	Product Description	A cloud-based learning management system (LMS).																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																													
GNRL-04	Web Link to Product Privacy Notice	https://inst.bid/privacy																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																													
GNRL-05	Web Link to Accessibility Statement or VPAT	https://inst.bid/a11y																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																													
GNRL-06	Vendor Contact Name	See GNRL-08 for Instructure's contact information.																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																													
GNRL-07	Vendor Contact Title	See GNRL-08 for Instructure's contact information.																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																													
GNRL-08	Vendor Contact Email	"Please reach out to your designated Customer Success Manager or Sales representative.
 For new clients, contact info@instructure.com"																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																													
GNRL-09	Vendor Contact Phone Number	"For existing customers, please reach out to your Customer Success Manager or Sales representative. For new clients:
 • North America and Latin America: 1.800.203.6755
 • Europe, Middle East, and Africa: 0800 358 4330
 • Australia and Asia Pacific: 1300 956 763 (+61 2 8038 5069 for callers outside Australia)
 • Hong Kong: 800 906 129"																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																													
GNRL-10	Vendor Accessibility Contact Name	See GNRL-12 for Instructure's accessibility contact information.																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																													
GNRL-11	Vendor Accessibility Contact Title	See GNRL-12 for Instructure's accessibility contact information.																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																													
GNRL-12	Vendor Accessibility Contact Email	"Please reach out to your designated Customer Success Manager or Sales representative.
 For product accessibility issues, contact accessibility@instructure.com"																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																													
GNRL-13	Vendor Accessibility Contact Phone Number	See GNRL-12 for Instructure's accessibility contact information.																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																													
GNRL-14	Vendor Hosting Regions	"Instructure serves a broad range of data zones globally including the United States (West & East), Canada, Australia, Singapore, Dublin, and Frankfurt."																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																													
GNRL-15	Vendor Work Locations	"With offices in the United States, United Kingdom, Hungary, Australia, Singapore, and Brazil, Instructure serves a broad range of customers globally."																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																													
Instructions																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																															
"Step 1: Complete the Qualifiers section first; responses in this section drive dictate question response requirements throughout the HECVAT Full.
Step 2: Complete each section answering each set of questions in order from top to bottom; the built-in formatting logic relies on this order. 
Step 3: Submit the completed Higher Education Community Vendor Assessment Toolkit (HECVAT) to the Institution according to institutional procedures."																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																															
Qualifiers		Vendor Answers	Additional Information	Guidance	Analyst Notes																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
"The institution conducts Third Party Security Assessments on a variety of third parties. As such, not all assessment questions are relevant to each party. To alleviate complexity, a ""qualifier"" strategy is implemented and allows for various parties to utilize this common documentation instrument. Responses to the following questions will determine the need to answer additional questions below. "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																															
QUAL-01	Does your product process protected health information (PHI) or any data covered by the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act?	No		Responses to the HIPAA section questions are not required.																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																											
QUAL-02	Will institution data be shared with or hosted by any third parties? (e.g. any entity not wholly-owned by your company is considered a third-party)	Yes		State each third party which institutional data will be shared with and/or hosted by and their level of responsibility.																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																											
QUAL-03	Do you have a well documented Business Continuity Plan (BCP) that is tested annually?	Yes		Provide a reference to your BCP and supporting documentation or submit it along with this fully-populated HECVAT.																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																											
QUAL-04	Do you have a well documented Disaster Recovery Plan (DRP) that is tested annually?	Yes		Provide a reference to your DRP and supporting documentation or submit it along with this fully-populated HECVAT.																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																											
QUAL-05	Is the vended product designed to process or store Credit Card information?	No		Responses to the PCI DSS section questions are not required.																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																											
QUAL-06	Does your company provide professional services pertaining to this product?	Yes		0																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																											
QUAL-07	Select your hosting option	4) AWS		N/A																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																											
Company Overview		Vendor Answers	Additional Information	Guidance	Analyst Notes																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
COMP-01	"Describe your organization’s business background and ownership structure, including all parent and subsidiary relationships."	"Instructure, Inc. was founded in 2008 by two enterprising grad students with one mission: to provide an innovative, open, cloud-based teaching and learning ecosystem for institutions and organizations that would deliver a far greater user experience than other learning management systems (LMSs) available at the time. The outcome was Canvas, a ground-breaking LMS that officially launched to market in 2011 and quickly became the fastest growing educational LMS in the US market.

From this strong foundation we developed the Instructure Learning Ecosystem, a set of integrated teaching and learning products built on cloud technology, coupled with service offerings and a thriving partner ecosystem, that together enable the creation and exchange of innovation through our ecosystem.

Today, Instructure supports nearly 8,000 client institutions and tens of millions of users in more than 100 countries. Higher education institutions, K-12 schools, departments of education, and vocational education providers across the globe now rely on Canvas as the cornerstone of their digital education strategy. For our complete story, please visit https://inst.bid/story.

Instructure, Inc. is the parent company of all global subsidiaries, including:
•  Instructure Global Limited (UK)
•  Instructure Hungary Kft
•  Instructure Australia Pty Ltd
•  Instructure Brazil Ltda
•  Instructure Singapore Pte. Ltd.

The ultimate parent company of Instructure, Inc. is Instructure Holdings, Inc., a company listed on the New York Stock Exchange (stock ticker 'INST') and currently majority held by Thoma Bravo, LLC. Thoma Bravo is a leading private equity firm with a 40-year history, including over $35 billion in investor commitments, and a focus on investing in software and technology companies.

Instructure filings are available online at: https://inst.bid/investors


"		N/A	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
COMP-02	Have you had an unplanned disruption to this product/service in the last 12 months?	No	"All unplanned disruptions and outages can be tracked via the Instructure Status page located at: https://inst.bid/status. Our annual uptime guarantee is 99.9% uptime and over the past 12 months, we have achieved an uptime average of 99.999%."	 	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
COMP-03	Do you have a dedicated Information Security staff or office?	Yes	"Instructure has a dedicated security function, which includes a team of security engineers, compliance managers, and a Chief Information Security and Privacy Officer (CISPO) who is responsible for overseeing the security program. The security team consists of members with years of security experience, degrees in security systems, certifications in various security domains, and participation in security-related conferences and trainings. Security isn’t treated as the sole responsibility of our Security team though - we ensure our employees understand that security is everyone’s responsibility. All members of Product and Engineering teams are thoroughly trained on secure coding practices, testing, and conducting thorough peer reviews with a focus on security. Likewise, every employee receives regular training on security and privacy as it pertains to their work in protecting our customers."	"Describe your Information Security Office, including size, talents, resources, etc."	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
COMP-04	"Do you have a dedicated Software and System Development team(s)? (e.g. Customer Support, Implementation, Product Management, etc.)"	Yes	"Our software and system development team includes over 300 development engineers, and over 100 product management staff members spanning two global regions. Our engineers are organized into five teams including: Core Development, Mobile Management, Quality Assurance, Operations, and IT. Our product management staff are broken out into Product Management, User Experience, and Research and Education teams.
 
 The Canvas LMS and other Canvas products are supported by over 700 staff in various Customer Success roles across the globe (Canvas Support, Customer Success Managers, and Implementation Consultants)."	"Describe the structure and size of your Software and System Development teams. (e.g. Customer Support, Implementation, Product Management, etc.)"	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
COMP-05	Use this area to share information about your environment that will assist those who are assessing your company data security program.	"Instructure has a robust information security program that runs on a continuous, PDCA-cycle. It was created based on guidance provided by ISO/IEC 27000:2018 and controls described in ISO/IEC 27001:2013, and is managed by Instructure's Chief Information Security and Privacy Officer. The security program is attested to by a number of current security certifications including ISO 27001, SOC 2, SOC 3, TX-RAMP, UK Cyber Essentials Plus, PCI DSS SAQ D and Attestation of Compliance.
 
Instructure has a software development lifecycle (SDLC) that incorporates secure coding practices and controls. _All code goes through a developer peer-review process before it is merged into the code base repository. On code commit, all application builds are automatically scanned for security vulnerabilities and must pass prior to deployment.
 
Instructure regularly performs vulnerability scans using a number of internal and external tools and techniques and annually, we make available to customers the results of our third-party bug bounty program because we believe that being open about all things - security included - enables us to build the best possible product for our customers.

 In addition to this, the Amazon Web Services infrastructure on which Canvas is hosted has a variety of formal accreditations. Some of the many certifications include:
 
 DoD SRG • FedRAMP • FIPS • IRAP • ISO 9001 • ISO 27001 • ISO 27017 • ISO 27018 • MLPS Level 3 • MTCS • PCI DSS Level 1 • SEC Rule 17-a-4(f) • SOC 1 • SOC 2 • SOC 3 • UK Cyber Essentials Plus 
 
 Architecture, business continuity, and security white papers are also available in the Canvas LMS Compliance package at inst.bid/canvas/lms/dl"		N/A	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
Documentation		Vendor Answers	Additional Information	Guidance	Analyst Notes																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
DOCU-01	Have you undergone a SSAE 18/SOC 2 audit?	Yes	"The Canvas LMS SOC 2 Type II audit is conducted in accordance with SSAE 18, and is available for review upon execution of a non-disclosure agreement. A copy of the SOC 3 report is part of the Canvas LMS Compliance Package."	"Provide the date of assessment and include a SOC 2 Type 2 (preferred) or SOC 3 report. If you have a SOC3 report, state how to obtain a copy. Indicate if your hosting provider was the subject of the audit."	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
DOCU-02	Have you completed the Cloud Security Alliance (CSA) self assessment or CAIQ?	Yes	Instructure's CAIQ and CSA STAR Level 1 certificate are included in the Canvas LMS Compliance Package available at https://inst.bid/canvas/lms/dl. Our listing can be viewed on the CSA STAR Registry at: https://inst.bid/csa	Please include a copy with your response and include a URL for the published assessment.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
DOCU-03	Have you received the Cloud Security Alliance STAR certification?	Yes	Instructure is CSA STAR Level 1 Self Assessed. Our listing can be viewed on the CSA STAR Registry at: https://inst.bid/csa	"Provide date of certification, any supporting documentation, and a URL for the certification."	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
DOCU-04	"Do you conform with a specific industry standard security framework? (e.g. NIST Cybersecurity Framework, CIS Controls, ISO 27001, etc.)"	Yes	"Instructure holds the following certifications for Canvas LMS: SOC 2 Type II, ISO/IEC 27001, and TX-RAMP. A SOC 3 report and ISO 27001/TX-RAMP certificates are included in our Canvas LMS Compliance Package."	"Provide documentation on how your organization conforms to your chosen framework and indicate current certification levels, where appropriate."	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
DOCU-05	Can the systems that hold the institution's data be compliant with NIST SP 800-171 and/or CMMC Level 3 standards?	Yes	"Instructure is not currently CMMC certified, however based on our SOC 2 Type II and ISO 27001 certifications, we believe CMMC Level 3 is achievable."	"if you have a 3rd party hosting provider, please provide how you comply with 800-171 where your 3rd party uses a shared responsibility mode"	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
DOCU-06	Can you provide overall system and/or application architecture diagrams including a full description of the data flow for all components of the system?	Yes	The Canvas LMS Architecture Paper is included in the Canvas LMS Compliance Package which contains an application architecture diagram.	Provide your diagrams (or a valid link to it) upon submission.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
DOCU-07	Does your organization have a data privacy policy?	Yes	Please see: https://inst.bid/privacy	Provide your data privacy document (or a valid link to it) upon submission.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
DOCU-08	"Do you have a documented, and currently implemented, employee onboarding and offboarding policy?"	Yes	"Instructure maintains a number of policies that form our employee onboarding and offboarding policies. This includes IT Acceptable Use, Network Security, Onboarding and Termination checklists, and Induction policies."	Provide a reference to your employee onboarding and offboarding policy and supporting documentation or submit it along with this fully-populated HECVAT.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
DOCU-09	Do you have a documented change management process?	Yes	"A documented change management process is in place, in line with ISO 27001 and SOC 2 Type II standards. Instructure's operations team has the ability to rollback updates in the event of a breaking change or outage. A copy of Instructure's SOC 2 Type II report is available under mutual NDA. A copy of the SOC 3 report is part of the Canvas LMS Compliance Package."	Summarize your current change management process.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
DOCU-10	Has a VPAT or ACR been created or updated for the product and version under consideration within the past year?	Yes	The latest Canvas VPAT was published November 2023 and can be located at: https://inst.bid/canvas/lms/vpat	State the date the VPAT was completed. Include this VPAT in your submission and/or link to its web location.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
DOCU-11	Do you have documentation to support the accessibility features of your product?	Yes	"Within the Canvas Basics Guide, we include accessibility documentation and resources (https://community.canvaslms.com/t5/Canvas-Basics-Guide/What-are-the-Canvas-accessibility-standards/ta-p/1564)."	Provide examples with links where possible.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
IT Accessibility 		Vendor Answers	Additional Information	Guidance	Analyst Notes																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
ITAC-01	Has a third party expert conducted an audit of the most recent version of your product?	Yes	Canvas LMS has been evaluated by WebAIM according to WCAG 2.1 standards. Certification can be found at: https://webaim.org/services/certification/canvas	State when the audit was conducted and by whom? Include the results in your submission and/or link to its web location.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
ITAC-02	Do you have a documented and implemented process for verifying accessibility conformance?	Yes	"Testing is regularly conducted using automated tools, assistive technology (such as screen readers, keyboard testing, etc.), and coding best practices. Third party accessibility evaluation occurs regularly with internal audits conducted with each release. Mechanisms are in place for logging and fixing accessibility defects."	Describe your processes and methodologies for validating accessibility conformance.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
ITAC-03	Have you adopted a technical or legal standard of conformance for the product in question?	Yes	Instructure is committed to ensuring its products are inclusive and meet the diverse accessibility needs of our users. We have adopted WCAG 2.1 Level A/AA and Section 508 conformance for Canvas and strive to maintain conformance through ongoing product releases.	Indicate which primary standards and comment upon any additional standards the product meets.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
ITAC-04	"Can you provide a current, detailed accessibility roadmap with delivery timelines?"	No	"While we do have internal plans and track major initiatives in the accessibility space, we don't have a publicly available roadmap because accessibility is built into every aspect of our products. There are no destinations to reach on a roadmap - accessibility is a permanent and ongoing process from design through to support for our customers and we are constantly working at ensuring our products are accessible and conform to industry frameworks such as WCAG 2.1."	Please provide any plans to develop and share an accessibility product roadmap in the future.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
ITAC-05	Do you expect your staff to maintain a current skill set in IT accessibility?	Yes	"Accessibility is ingrained from product design through engineering, and we have dedicated accessibility staff, subject matter experts, and Product Managers. Internally, from all aspects of the business, we maintain a number of accessibility advocates who meet regularly to raise issues, discuss trends, and maintain skills and knowledge in the accessibility space."	"Provide any further relevant information about how expertise is maintained; include any accessibility certifications staff may hold (e.g., IAAP WAS <https://www.accessibilityassociation.org/certifications> or DHS Trusted Tester <https://section508.gov/test/trusted-tester>."	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
ITAC-06	Do you have a documented and implemented process for reporting and tracking accessibility issues?	Yes	"Any accessibility issues detected during testing or use of Canvas (internal or external) are filed to our issue-tracking system, Jira. Once entered, they are assigned to the internal accessibility team for triage and assessment. These issues are then tracked through to resolution in accordance with company policy and industry best practice recommendations."	Describe the process and any recent examples of fixes as a result of the process.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
ITAC-07	Do you have documented processes and procedures for implementing accessibility into your development lifecycle?	Yes	"Instructure has a dedicated team of accessibility specialists that support Instructure's accessibility engineering efforts. The team is responsible for Canvas’ accessibility needs, development, and testing, along with helping train new engineers on accessible development practices, supporting development projects with design reviews, as well as audits as requested, and interacting with customers, external auditors and stakeholders. Our accessibility team ensures we strive for conformance to standards and features are developed that provide full capabilities and a positive learning and teaching experience to all users."	Provide further details or multiple means in Additional Information.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
ITAC-08	Can all functions of the application or service be performed using only the keyboard?	No	"The Instructure accessibility team regularly tests releases using keyboard only navigation and the supported screen readers/browser combinations. The majority of Canvas is keyboard accessible in that a user can only use the keyboard to navigate. This however does not include third-party LTIs not created by Instructure. Some aspects of Canvas such as annotations and using drawing tools are not keyboard compatible, however, some keyboard actions exist for these features such as deleting and navigating annotations."	"Indicate a plan to test the product, develop a roadmap for keyboard accessibility or any further context."	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
ITAC-09	"Does your product rely on activating a special ‘accessibility mode,’ a ‘lite version’ or accessing an alternate interface for accessibility purposes?"	No		 	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
Assessment of Third Parties		Vendor Answers	Additional Information	Guidance	Analyst Notes																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
THRD-01	"Do you perform security assessments of third party companies with which you share data? (i.e. hosting providers, cloud services, PaaS, IaaS, SaaS, etc.)."	Yes	"Instructure has a robust vendor due diligence process as part of our Vendor Risk Management Program. Prior to using any vendor and on an annual basis thereafter, Instructure's security teams performs review of these vendors based. Included as part of this review, the security team requests a copy of the vendor's third-party audit reports. If any exceptions or other issues are noted in these reports, the security team follows up as necessary to determine scope and impact. If a third party audit report is not available, we require the vendor to complete a Vendor Risk Management Assessment (""VRM""). The VRM assessment is based on security controls described ISO/IEC 27001. If a vendor does not adequately meet the requirements of the VRM assessment (a) Instructure's Executive Committee is required to approve the use of such vendor, and (b) the vendor must submit a remediation plan to address any gaps. Lastly, contractual obligations are put in place between Instructure and the vendor to ensure security practices are in place and operating effectively."	"Provide a summary of your practices that assures that the third party will be subject to the appropriate standards regarding security, service recoverability, and confidentiality."	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
THRD-02	Provide a brief description for why each of these third parties will have access to institution data.	"As our list of third parties is often evolving, a list of current third parties can be provided upon request."		N/A	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
THRD-03	What legal agreements (i.e. contracts) do you have in place with these third parties that address liability in the event of a data breach?	"Instructure takes full responsibility for third parties it may engage to provide cloud-related infrastructure elements. Instructure engages these third parties by entering into contractual agreements and, where appropriate, data processing agreements to ensure full compliance with data privacy laws."		N/A	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
THRD-04	Do you have an implemented third party management strategy?	Yes	"The Canvas LMS ecosystem provides integration points with various third-party tools and services. The majority of the services integrated into the core of the Canvas ecosystem are done so as modular plugins which leverage the APIs of the remote system. Additionally, Canvas products support integration with external systems via JSON/REST API and LTI. As these integrations are not a part of the core product and require integration, licensing and configuration by the end user, they are not addressed here."	Provide additional information that may help analysts better understand your environment and how it relates to third-party solutions.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
THRD-05	"Do you have a process and implemented procedures for managing your hardware supply chain? (e.g., telecommunications equipment, export licensing, computing devices)"	Yes	Our processes and procedures cover regions in which we operate.	State what countries and/or regions this process is compliant with.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
Consulting		Vendor Answers	Additional Information	Guidance	Analyst Notes																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
CONS-01	Will the consulting take place on-premises?	Yes	"Optional: Canvas implementation packages provide consulting options to meet each customer's implementation requirements. They range from minimal support and guidance to full project ownership and management by Instructure. Some of these services may take place on-premise, such as training."	 	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
CONS-02	Will the consultant require access to Institution's network resources?	Yes	"Optional: Access by Instructure Implementation Consultants may be required. For example, to assist with the transition of content from a previous LMS into Canvas, or to assist integration with a customer's existing APIs and other systems."	 	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
CONS-03	Will the consultant require access to hardware in the Institution's data centers?	No		 	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
CONS-04	Will the consultant require an account within the Institution's domain (@*.edu)?	No		 	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
CONS-05	"Has the consultant received training on [sensitive, HIPAA, PCI, etc.] data handling?"	Yes	"Our Data Handling and Classification Policy, along with Information Security, is included in our employment terms and conditions, and all employees are required to undertake comprehensive training both at hire and annually thereafter. There is a formal disciplinary process in place to enforce data handling (and all security policies), and actions are taken up to and including dismissal depending on the severity of the issue."	 	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
CONS-06	Will any data be transferred to the consultant's possession?	Yes	"During some Canvas implementations, a customer may transfer data to a consultant's possession for the purpose of data migration into Canvas. For example, the customer may provide the consultant a link to an online data store or upload files to an Instructure SFTP server to which the consultant has access."	 	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
CONS-07	Is it encrypted (at rest) while in the consultant's possession?	Yes	All Instructure-owned devices are encrypted at rest. Additionally server-to-server data transfer is the preferred method of data transfer.	 	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
CONS-08	Will the consultant need remote access to the Institution's network or systems?	No		No need to answer CONS-09	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
CONS-09	Can we restrict that access based on source IP address?			 	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
Application/Service Security		Vendor Answers	Additional Information	Guidance	Analyst Notes																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
APPL-01	"Are access controls for institutional accounts based on structured rules, such as role-based access control (RBAC), attribute-based access control (ABAC) or policy-based access control (PBAC)?"	Yes	"Canvas LMS uses context-aware RBAC. Canvas administrators can create and customize bespoke user roles such as Administrators, Teachers, and TAs, based on their institution’s structure. Canvas administrators have over 170 granular permissions to choose from for these roles. Users are either granted account level rights and permissions (e.g. admins) or specific assigned course level roles (e.g. teacher, student, TA, etc.). Depending on their role, the user can have varying scopes of access based on the principle of least privilege. Users may hold multiple different roles (e.g. a student in one course and a teacher in another) without any escalation of privilege between those separate roles. There is also no requirement for users to have separate logins for their respective roles. User roles can be updated by Canvas administrators at any time, making role maintenance quick and efficient."	Describe available roles.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
APPL-02	"Are access controls for staff within your organization based on structured rules, such as RBAC, ABAC, or PBAC?"	Yes		 	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
APPL-03	Does the system provide data input validation and error messages?	Yes	"Where specific data input is required, such as a date, word, or number, Canvas is capable of validating the data. Error messages related to the discrepancy will be displayed for the user. Canvas is built to be simple and give users all the resources they need to navigate the system efficiently. For added security, Canvas automatically sanitizes potentially malicious inputs from fields (such as scripts). This helps to protect Canvas from potential attacks, including SQL injection and cross-site scripting (XSS)."	Describe how your system(s) provide data input validation and error messages.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
APPL-04	Are you using a web application firewall (WAF)?	Yes	"We utilize a Web Application Firewall (WAF) for all Canvas LMS instances. Canvas is also significantly hardened in a way that is already resistant to what a Web Application Firewall (WAF) would block. We conduct security auditing based on the Open Web Application Security Project (OWASP), perform third-party testing against the most critical and known security risks on an ongoing basis, and use both AWS Shield and AWS' autoscaling via Elastic Load Balancers to defend against attacks."	Describe the currently implemented WAF.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
APPL-05	"Do you have a process and implemented procedures for managing your software supply chain (e.g. libraries, repositories, frameworks, etc)"	Yes	"Managing our software supply chain forms part of our Vulnerability Management Policy. Instructure's information security policies and standards are based on information security best practices as set forth by the International organization for Standardization's (ISO) 27000 suite of standards, NIST's 800-53 suite of controls, and the AICPA's Trust Service Principles and Criteria."	Provide supporting documentation of your processes.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
APPL-06	"Are only currently supported operating system(s), software, and libraries leveraged by the system(s)/application(s) that will have access to institution's data?"	Yes	"The security and engineering teams ensure the languages, web applications, frameworks, and environments that Instructure leverages to develop, host, and maintain Canvas are maintained to supported versions."	Please provide a list of all required dependencies.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
APPL-07	"If mobile, is the application available from a trusted source (e.g., App Store, Google Play Store)?"	Yes	"Our app titles include Canvas Student, Canvas Teacher, and Canvas Parent.
 • Apple iOS: https://inst.bid/canvas/mobile/ios
 • Google Play: https://inst.bid/canvas/mobile/android"	 State the application title as listed within the trusted source.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
APPL-08	Does your application require access to location or GPS data?	No		Please indicate any future plans that would require access to this data	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
APPL-09	"Does your application provide separation of duties between security administration, system administration, and standard user functions?"	Yes	"Customers have the ability to be LMS system administrators in Canvas, however, security administration is managed by Instructure."	Describe or provide a reference to the facilities available in the system to provide separation of duties between security administration and system administration functions.	  																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
APPL-10	Do you have a fully implemented policy or procedure that details how your employees obtain administrator access to institutional instance of the application?	Yes	"Instructure maintains access policies and standards based upon role and least privilege access principles. Instructure uses a multiple approval system for granting access to said employees. The manager of the employee requesting access must fill out a ticket detailing the level of access to the system required and specifying which parts, functions, and features are to be accessible by the employee. Clear, valid, and necessary business justification must be provided for the user in question. Instructure's technology teams facilitate the installation of keys for all employees with access to customer data. An automated configuration system installs employee public keys on a per-server basis based on need. This same configuration process automatically revokes keys globally when necessary."	"Describe or provide a reference that details how administrator access is handled (e.g. provisioning, principle of least privilege, deprovisioning, etc.)"	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
APPL-11	Have your developers been trained in secure coding techniques?	Yes	"All Canvas developers are trained to identify and analyze security issues when writing and reviewing code. Members of the core security team and the engineering team subscribe to security-focused lists, blogs, and other resources to maintain, expand, and share the collective body of knowledge. Instructure maintains both an internal wiki and team-focused channels to discuss and share best practices for the mitigation and prevention of security pitfalls and vulnerabilities. The security and engineering teams keep up-to-date on general security practices, recent attack vectors, and on any security issues specifically related to the languages, web applications, frameworks, and environments that Instructure employs to develop, host, and maintain Canvas."	Summarize your secure coding training.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
APPL-12	Was your application developed using secure coding techniques?	Yes	"All code goes through a developer peer-review process before it is merged into the code base repository. On code commit, all application builds are automatically scanned for security vulnerabilities and must pass prior to deployment."	Summarize your secure coding practices.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
APPL-13	Do you subject your code to static code analysis and/or static application security testing prior to release?	Yes	"All code in Canvas goes through a developer peer-review process before it is merged into the code base repository. On code commit, all application builds are automatically scanned for security vulnerabilities and must pass prior to deployment. Static and dynamic code analysis is performed using a number of external and internal tools. "	 Provide a list of all tools utilized during static code analysis or static application security testing.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
APPL-14	Do you have software testing processes (dynamic or static) that are established and followed?	Yes	"Instructure applies Agile principles and methodologies with an integrated Quality Assurance (QA) process to the design, development, and maintenance of our products. 
 
 Development teams operate in either Scrum or Kanban teams organized around product components and features, with dedicated QA processes and personnel integral to each team. All functional code changes are required to be thoroughly reviewed and tested by one or more engineers other than the author. All code changes are also required to have appropriate automated tests written before the change is accepted, both for new features and bug fixes. 
 
 Once new code has passed peer review, the code is incorporated into the code base and submitted to testing and quality assurance. The new code is deployed to a continuous integration server where it is immediately tested. Instructure's testing team runs the following types of tests: 
 _ Unit tests (testing code with code)
 _ Integration tests (testing code with integrations with other code)
 _ Browser tests (testing how code works in the browser) on all the different environments and across different databases.
 
 After passing these tests, the code is incorporated in the master code branch for formal quality assurance. The QA team tests the new code on all supported platforms and browsers. Any bugs, flaws, defects or security issues that are found must be fixed during this formal QA period, otherwise the change is pulled for further development."		 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
"Authentication, authorization, and Accounting"		Vendor Answers	Additional Information	Guidance	Analyst Notes																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
AAAI-01	Does your solution support single sign-on (SSO) protocols for user and administrator authentication?	1) Yes	"Canvas administrators can configure Single Sign-On (SSO) settings for their organization with Canvas' authentication tools. Canvas' integrations with external identity providers (IdPs) for centralized identity management and delegated authentication, including Central Authentication Service (CAS), Clever, Microsoft (Active Directory, Azure AD), OAuth, OpenID Connect, SAML 2.0 and Shibboleth. Canvas respects SSO authentication measures including complex passwords, MFA, ageing, and re-use policies."	"Describe how strong authentication is enforced (e.g., complex passwords, multifactor tokens, certificates, biometrics, aging requirements, re-use policy)."	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
AAAI-02	Does your solution support local authentication protocols for user and administrator authentication?	3) Both modes available	Local authentication can be used for both users and administrators. It can also be used concurrently with any of the supported external identity providers (IdPs).	Answer relevant questions below	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
AAAI-03	Can you enforce password/passphrase aging requirements?	No	Local authentication does not enforce password aging requirements	Describe plans to support password/passphrase aging requirements.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
AAAI-04	Can you enforce password/passphrase complexity requirements [provided by the institution]?	No	Local authentication does not enforce password complexity requirements	Describe plans to support password/passphrase complexity requirements.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
AAAI-05	Does the system have password complexity or length limitations and/or restrictions?	Yes	Local authentication enforces a minimum character count of 8. Local authentication can also prohibit common weak passwords from being used.	Describe these limitations and/or restrictions and state what lengths and complexities are supported.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
AAAI-06	Do you have documented password/passphrase reset procedures that are currently implemented in the system and/or customer support?	Yes	"Using Canvas' internal authentication, individual users can simply reset their own password. An e-mail is automatically sent to the user, allowing them to reset their password."	 Describe your documented password/passphrase reset procedures that are currently implemented in the system and/or customer support.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
AAAI-07	Does your organization participate in InCommon or another eduGAIN affiliated trust federation?	Yes	Instructure's InCommon membership may be viewed at: https://incommon.org/community-organization/?id=0015000000m45ZFAAY	List the entityIds registered in the Additional Information column.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
AAAI-08	Does your application support integration with other authentication and authorization systems?	Yes	"Canvas LMS has a number of integrations with external identity providers (IdPs) for centralized identity management and delegated authentication, including:
 _ Microsoft (Active Directory, Azure AD)
 _ Central Authentication Service (CAS)
 _ Clever
 _ OAuth
 _ Security Assertion Markup Language (SAML) 2.0
 _ Shibboleth
 
 Documentation for creating and adding authentication providers is available in the Authentication Providers API https://canvas.instructure.com/doc/api/authentication_providers.html"	"List which systems and versions supported (such as Active Directory, Kerberos, or other LDAP compatible directory) in Additional Info."	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
AAAI-09	"Does your solution support any of the following Web SSO standards? [e.g., SAML2 (with redirect flow), OIDC, CAS, or other]"	Yes	See AAAI-08	"State the Web SSO standards supported by your solution and provide additional details about your support, including framework(s) in use, how information is exchanged securely, etc."	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
AAAI-10	Do you support differentiation between email address and user identifier?	Yes	Both local and SSO authentication support user_id as a unique identifier separate from a user's email address.	 	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
AAAI-11	"Do you allow the customer to specify attribute mappings for any needed information beyond a user identifier? [e.g., Reference eduPerson, ePPA/ePPN/ePE ]"	Yes	"Canvas customers can use eduPersonPrincipalName (ePPN) as part of their SAML authentication into Canvas. While not required, Canvas supports federated attributes for populating additional information into a user's profile. Rather than mapping directly to eduPerson schema attributes, Canvas provides freeform text fields when mapping SAML attributes to Canvas user properties."	 	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
AAAI-12	"If you don't support SSO, does your application and/or user-frontend/portal support multi-factor authentication? (e.g. Duo, Google Authenticator, OTP, etc.)"	Yes	"Canvas LMS Multi-factor authentication (MFA) is compatible with any MFA third-party provider that uses Time-based One-time Passwords (TOTP) or HOTP algorithms as described by Request for Comments (RFC) 6238 [8]; https://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc6238.txt. The algorithm of OTP generation is based on an HMAC-Secure Hash Algorithm 1 (SHA1) hash of a secret key and a counter value (timestamp in the case of TOTP). Users can register with MFA third-party applications such as Google Authenticator, Authy, or 1Password by using either the Canvas-supplied QR code or a Secret Key unique to a user’s account.
 
 For some users, such as those in the US, Canvas also has built in MFA functionality, which sends text (SMS) messages with a OTP to a user's device for secondary authentication."	"List all supported multi-factor authentication methods, technologies, and/or products and provide a brief summary of each."	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
AAAI-13	Does your application automatically lock the session or log-out an account after a period of inactivity?	Yes	Local authentication timeouts can be configured from 20 minutes to 24 hours (default). SSO authentication uses the timeout configured in the IdP. Mobile applications timeout after 48 hours.	Describe the default behavior of this capability.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
AAAI-14	Are there any passwords/passphrases hard coded into your systems or products?	No		 	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
AAAI-15	Are you storing any passwords in plaintext?	No	"For local authentication passwords are hashed with SHA-512 and uniquely salted. Hashed values are stored in the database and compared at every logon attempt. For SSO no passwords or password values are stored, instead the SSO provider is queried at every logon attempt and Canvas waits for an authorization approval from the IdP."	 	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
AAAI-16	Does your application support directory integration for user accounts?	Yes	"Canvas supports integrations with external identity providers including Active Directory, Central Authentication Service (CAS), Clever, OAuth, OpenID Connect, Security Assertion Markup Language (SAML) 2.0, and Shibboleth."	 Describe all authentication services supported by the system.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
AAAI-17	"Are audit logs available that include AT LEAST all of the following; login, logout, actions performed, and source IP address?"	Yes	"Canvas logs all activity that takes place including login, logout, actions performed, and source IP address. Audit logs are available for events such as page navigation, authentication activity, SIS data transfers, course activity, and much more. Any action that is taken within the Canvas interface is logged - including administrator actions - and accessible by administrators using a variety of tools. Logs are available in a readable format, whether through the Canvas interface, exportable CSV files, or JSON via the API."	 	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
AAAI-18	"Describe or provide a reference to the a) system capability to log security/authorization changes as well as user and administrator security events (i.e. physical or electronic)(e.g. login failures, access denied, changes accepted), and b) all requirements necessary to implement logging and monitoring on the system. Include c) information about SIEM/log collector usage."	"a) Canvas tracks and logs all listed activities, including user access, login and logout, error conditions, user administration, functional modules administration, and uploading and downloading of content. In other words, no content is accessed or changed without it being logged.
 
 b) Security and change logs are made available to authorized users directly through the Canvas user interface or through RESTful API. Additional implementation is not required. The API and other services (e.g. Canvas Data) can, however, be leveraged to perform reporting and logging analysis in external tools and systems. Audit trail data is encrypted both in transit and at rest, and only accessible via a System Administrator account password, or by OAuth2 authentication and authorization via the Canvas API. Each institution's administrators can review all activity logs for their instance of Canvas using built-in reports, tools, and Canvas’ API. Some activity, such as application security logs are managed and reviewed by Instructure on behalf of institutions and are made available in the case of a security incident report.
 
 c) All activity is logged in secure, immutable logs using Cloudwatch, CloudTrail and other AWS service logging. All our logs are piped to our SIEM, Splunk, for analysis and archiving. Data that is logged or collected is purely used for the security and delivery of the service. Details of data use are explicitly defined in Instructure's Terms and Conditions."		N/A	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
AAAI-19	"Describe or provide a reference to the retention period for those logs, how logs are protected, and whether they are accessible to the customer (and if so, how)."	"All system and security logs are kept for at least one year, stored immutably and securely in our SIEM, Splunk. Activity logs related to a specific customer are also available for at least one year. Furthermore, cloud workload monitoring solutions are deployed on all Canvas instances, which collect event data from instances and centrally store them. Regardless, all logs are stored on encrypted volumes within Amazon Web Services. 30 days of security logs remain readily accessible for our Security team to monitor and analyze.
 
 Canvas administrators can review activity logs directly within Canvas or via the API. System security logs are managed and reviewed by Instructure on behalf of our clients and are made available in the case of a security incident report."		N/A	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
BCP - Respond to as many questions below as possible.		Vendor Answers	Additional Information	Guidance	Analyst Notes																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
BCPL-01	Is an owner assigned who is responsible for the maintenance and review of the Business Continuity Plan?	Yes	Instructure's Chief Information Security and Privacy Officer is responsible for overseeing business continuity in coordination with both the Executive Leadership Team and the Chief Technology Officer.	"Provide additional details, as needed."	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
BCPL-02	Is there a defined problem/issue escalation plan in your BCP for impacted clients?	Yes	"All potential disasters are escalated immediately to both the Executive Leadership Team and the Chief Technology Officer (or a designated officer) who are responsible for assessing the event and confirming the disaster. Once confirmed, the Incident Commander is authorized to declare a disaster and begin activation of the Disaster Recovery Team (DRT). Because disasters can vary in terms of severity and disruption, and can also happen with or without notice, the DRT will assess and analyze the impact of the disaster and act quickly to mitigate any further damage.
 
Once a disaster has been officially declared, the Incident Commander is responsible for directing the DRT recovery efforts and ongoing notifications to impacted clients."	 Summarize your defined problem/issue escalation plan contained in your BCP.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
BCPL-03	Is there a documented communication plan in your BCP for impacted clients?	Yes	"Impacted clients are notified in three (3) stages of a disaster:
 _ Disaster Declaration: Impacted customers and business partners will be notified immediately if a disaster is declared. The notification will include a description of the event, the effect to the service, and any potential impact to data.
 _ Updates throughout Execution Phase: Impacted customers and business partners will be kept up to date throughout the disaster recovery process via phone, messaging, and/or email. We will also post official status updates on status.instructure.com
 _ Completion of Recovery: Once recovery is complete and services have resumed, our customer notifications will include general information about the steps taken to recovery, and any data that may have been impacted. If the recovery is partial and the service is still in a degraded state, notifications will include an estimate of how long the degradation will continue.
 
 If the primary contact(s) for disaster recovery (nominated by the customer) is unavailable, we will notify the alternative contact (also nominated by the customer). If, for any reason, we are unable to contact the customer’s primary and alternative contacts, we will endeavor to make contact with other representatives of the customer’s organization.
 
 Instructure's Business Continuity white paper is part of the Canvas LMS Compliance Package."	 Summarize your documented communication plan contained in your BCP.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
BCPL-04	Are all components of the BCP reviewed at least annually and updated as needed to reflect change?	Yes	"Instructure's BCP component review strategy consists of a ladder framework to provide consistent, predictable, and resilient components appropriate for all our products and services based on the required level of the relevant component. Components included in our BCP are categorized into groups, each with an owner responsible for reviewing the overall service BCP health at least annually."	 Describe your BCP component review strategy.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
BCPL-05	Are specific crisis management roles and responsibilities defined and documented?	Yes	"Instructure has a crisis response management plan and crisis response team that consists of its Human Resources, Communication, Legal, and Security teams to respond to crisis situations at Instructure office locations."	 Summarize these crisis management roles and responsibilities.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
BCPL-06	Does your organization conduct training and awareness activities to validate its employees understanding of their roles and responsibilities during a crisis?	Yes	"Instructure engages in crisis training and exercises for office-based staff that include, for example, emergency drills."	 Describe your training and awareness activities.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
BCPL-07	Does your organization have an alternative business site or a contracted Business Recovery provider?	Yes	"_The majority of Instructure personnel work from home (WFH) and/or remotely. All personnel who work in office locations also have WFH capability in case of a disruption that affects the ability to work from one of the Instructure office locations. To ensure this practice is effective, Instructure ensures there are teleworking policies in place and communicated to all personnel, security practices are in place for accessing corporate networks, and mass communication notification services in place. Multiple providers are used to supply Instructure's offices with connectivity—allowing for quickly resumption of connectivity if one provider is found unable to provide the level of service required to sustain consistent, continual connectivity."	Provide the distance (in miles) between the primary and secondary locations.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
BCPL-08	Does your organization conduct an annual test of relocating to an alternate site for business recovery purposes?	Yes	"As part of Instructure's annual business continuity tabletop testing, use cases can include events that affect remote employees, Instructure office relocation, and communication procedures."	 State the date of your last alternate site relocation test.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
BCPL-09	"Is this product a core service of your organization, and as such, the top priority during business continuity planning?"	Yes	"Canvas is our flagship product and top priority, with over 7,000 clients worldwide in over 100 different countries. We host tens of millions of users on our Learning Ecosystem and, to date, have supported close to 6 million concurrent users on Canvas LMS."	 Provide a brief summary to support your selection.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
BCPL-10	Are all services that support your product fully redundant?	Yes	"The Canvas LMS architecture is resilient to failure and capable of rapid recovery from component failure. The Canvas application, its media and file storage, and its databases are each independently redundant. If an application hosting node were to fail, all traffic transfers to living nodes. If load increases, an automated provisioning system ensures that more hosting nodes are made available to handle the traffic—either in response to increased load or in predictive anticipation of future workloads. The database and file stores are also horizontally scalable, adding capacity for both additional storage and load as needed."	"Describe or provide references explaining how tertiary services are redundant (i.e. DNS, ISP, etc.)."	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
Change Management		Vendor Answers	Additional Information	Guidance	Analyst Notes																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
CHNG-01	"Does your Change Management process minimally include authorization, impact analysis, testing, and validation before moving changes to production?"	Yes	"A documented change management process is in place, which is in line with SOC 2 Type II standards. A copy of Instructure's SOC 2 Type II report is available under mutual NDA. A SOC 3 report is included with this document."	Indicate all procedures that are implemented in your CMP. a.) An impact analysis of the upgrade is performed. b.) The change is appropriately authorized. c.) Changes are made first in a test environment. d.) The ability to implement the upgrades/changes in the production environment is limited to appropriate IT personnel.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
CHNG-02	Does your Change Management process also verify that all required third party libraries and dependencies are still supported with each major change?	Yes	"As part of our SDLC, QA, and Change Management processes, each product team ensures that all required third-party libraries and dependencies are supported and functional in each release with the use of a number of different development and QA tools."	Please describe your program to track these dependancies.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
CHNG-03	Will the institution be notified of major changes to your environment that could impact the institution's security posture?	Yes	"Instructure emails detailed release notes to our customer’s administrators in advance of the release dates describing the new features, modified features, and/or bug fixes. Any major changes which may impact an institution's security posture will also be communicated via this method. The update/upgrade release notes are available to all Canvas LMS users at inst.bid/canvas/lms/releases"	State how and when the institution will be notified of major changes to your environment.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
CHNG-04	Do clients have the option to not participate in or postpone an upgrade to a new release?	Yes	"Wide ranging features (e.g. those that significantly update the workflow for common activities in Canvas) are deployed as Feature Options. Feature Options allow administrators to choose when they want to enable the new feature for the institution. Most institutions will pilot the feature within their non-production environment and then enable it for release between terms in order to give teachers time to understand and incorporate the feature into their everyday Canvas use. Minor updates, which include minor changes to non-critical areas of the system, are not able to be postponed since these are often required security patches, bug fixes, and miscellaneous updates between feature release drops."	Provide reference the the process/procedure to manage releases.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
CHNG-05	Do you have a fully implemented solution support strategy that defines how many concurrent versions you support?	Yes	"Canvas is a Software as a Service, and as such, all clients are on the same version."	Describe or provide a reference to your solution support strategy in regard to maintaining software currency. (i.e. how many concurrent versions are you willing to run and support?)	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
CHNG-06	Does the system support client customizations from one release to another?	Yes	"Canvas does not require reconfiguration after feature releases. Customizations such as branding elements are unaffected by releases. Integrations such as LTI tools and services leveraging Canvas' API are typically unaffected as well. If any alterations to Canvas will affect LTI or API usage, advanced notice and a period for testing and performing alterations is given."	 Describe or provide reference to your solution support strategy in regard to maintaining client customizations from one release to another.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
CHNG-07	Do you have a release schedule for product updates?	Yes	"Canvas product updates occur on the third Saturday of the month and scheduled dates are localized for all regions. A product update release represents a scheduled event when customer-affecting code is intended to be visible in a specified Canvas environment. Canvas release notes maintain a current list of features and other customer-impacting changes that will be included in an upcoming Canvas release. Changes are typically deployed to the non-production environment for a month before being released to the production environment, giving our customers opportunity to provide feedback about the upcoming/proposed changes, before production release. This also allows us to innovate as a company and quickly release updates and new features.
 
 Additionally, Canvas is also updated twice a month with bug fixes, minor enhancements and patches, with a two-hour window of downtime twice a month between the hours of 12:05am and 4:05am in a customer's local time zone. The release window is an indication only; often fixes only take minutes to complete and little to no downtime is required. 
 
 Instructure will also apply security-related updates when needed, in addition to the above schedules."	 Provide a reference to this product's release schedule.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
CHNG-08	"Do you have a technology roadmap, for at least the next 2 years, for enhancements and bug fixes for the product/service being assessed?"	Yes	"Canvas has a public roadmap available to customers on our Community site at: inst.bid/canvas/roadmap. As Canvas LMS changes and improves, we want our customers to not only see exactly what improvements are being made and what we are planning in each quarter, but also have a direct influence on those improvements. Our Canvas roadmap is a 'live' and evolving guide on our Community site where customers can engage with the product team on projects and initiatives in the early stages of the software development process, read their blog posts, and engage in our requests for feedback. Engagement is a critical part of the Instructure feature development process and while we don't publicly detail plans two years in advance, we are constantly planning internally this far in advance for the future path of our products."	 Provide a reference to your technology roadmap.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
CHNG-09	Is Institution involvement (i.e. technically or organizationally) required during product updates?	No	"Updates are pushed to non-production and production environments without requiring any resource from an institution's IT staff or faculty, which means our customers can focus their time on the important task of excellence in teaching and learning instead of software maintenance. New features and major changes are first released as opt-in features, giving each institution the ability to implement or test changes on a schedule that best suits them. As versionless software, Canvas ensures all institutions have access to the same features while maintaining the flexibility to use them in a manner that best fits each organization's individual needs."	 	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
CHNG-10	"Do you have policy and procedure, currently implemented, managing how critical patches are applied to all systems and applications?"	Yes	"We assess security risks based on two factors: Impact (perceived, calculated, or actual impact that might occur if the identified vulnerability is exploited) and likelihood (probability of the vulnerability being exploited). These two factors allow us to categorize the severity of issues. Our vulnerability remediation timelines are as follows:
 • Critical: ASAP (within commercially reasonable timeframe)
 • High: Within 30 days
 • Moderate: Within 90 days
 • Low: Within 180 days"	 Summarize the policy and procedure(s) managing how critical patches are applied to systems and applications.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
CHNG-11	"Do you have policy and procedure, currently implemented, guiding how security risks are mitigated until patches can be applied?"	Yes	"Following NIST 800-37 ISO 27005 Instructure's policy ensures that our Security team:
 1. Identifies threats and risks that may affect our assets.
 2. Assesses threats, risks, and vulnerabilities, based on the probability of occurrence and the impact. Using this information we assign it an ""Overall Risk"" value.
 3. Mitigates risks according to each risk's respective Overall Risk value.
 4. Monitors mitigation mechanisms to determine the effectiveness of each mitigation plan on each risk over time. Additional mitigation mechanisms may be required to continue to drive down the likelihood and/or impact of each risk."	Summarize the policy and procedure(s) guiding risk mitigation practices before critical patches can be applied.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
CHNG-12	Are upgrades or system changes installed during off-peak hours or in a manner that does not impact the customer?	Yes	"Canvas is upgraded twice a month, with a two-hour window of maintenance between the hours of 12:05am and 4:05am in a customer's local time zone. The maintenance window is an indication only; often updates only take minutes to complete with little to no downtime required. If there are no updates, no maintenance is performed."	" Define current off-peak hours, including time zones as necessary."	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
CHNG-13	Do procedures exist to provide that emergency changes are documented and authorized (including after the fact approval)?	Yes	"Emergency changes follow our standard code change process, including documenting changes, authorization, and testing. Canvas code changes are well documented and versioned. Deployments can only be performed by authorized individuals through use of keys and any changes are logged."	 Summarize implemented procedures ensuring that emergency changes are documented and authorized.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
CHNG-14	"Do you have an implemented system configuration management process? (e.g. secure ""gold"" images, etc.)"	Yes	Instructure deploys a configuration management system which monitors for file drift or skew and will replace a skewed file with a gold copy on a regular basis.	Summarize your implemented system configuration management precess.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
CHNG-15	"Do you have a systems management and configuration strategy that encompasses servers, appliances, cloud services, applications, and mobile devices (company and employee owned)?"	Yes	"Instructure maintains both a Network Security Policy and a IT Acceptable Use Policy which outline procedures, processed and policies for all endpoints on both production and corporate networks and includes Instructure-owned and BYOD devices. These policies are evaluated against both SOC 2 and ISO 27001 standards."	Summarize your systems management and configuration strategy.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
Data		Vendor Answers	Additional Information	Guidance	Analyst Notes																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
DATA-01	"Does the environment provide for dedicated single-tenant capabilities? If not, describe how your product or environment separates data from different customers (e.g., logically, physically, single tenancy, multi-tenancy)."	No	"Canvas LMS is a multi-tenant Software as a Service (SaaS). Separation of tenants is accomplished via logical separation in what is natively multi-tenant software. Customer data is segregated via database partitioning. This partitioning is based on real-world aspect of the data (e.g. segmented by customer) and data cannot leak from one partition to another, nor can clients gain access to data in another partition as the method of inferring the client partition is accomplished after authentication. As client credentials are only valid for a single account, and therefore partition, user authentication is intrinsically tied to the partition identity. Validation of segregated client data occurs during weekly disaster recovery testing."	Describe your plan to separate institution data from other customers.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
DATA-02	"Will Institution's data be stored on any devices (database servers, file servers, SAN, NAS, …) configured with non-RFC 1918/4193 (i.e. publicly routable) IP addresses?"	No	Customer data is not stored on devices configured with non-RFC 1918/4193 (publicly routable) IP addresses.	 	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
DATA-03	"Is sensitive data encrypted, using secure protocols/algorithms, in transport? (e.g. system-to-client)"	Yes	"All data is encrypted in transport. Inbound and outbound traffic is encrypted using TLS 1.2 forward-secrecy-compliant ciphers whenever possible (e.g. ECDHE-ECDSA-AES128-GCM-SHA256) to ensure that all sensitive, personally-identifiable information, credentials exchange, page requests, and session data is secure. The acceptable cipher list is constantly maintained to ensure that no vulnerabilities are present."	Summarize your transport encryption strategy	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
DATA-04	"Is sensitive data encrypted, using secure protocols/algorithms, in storage? (e.g. disk encryption, at-rest, files, and within a running database)"	Yes	All data is stored at rest within encrypted volumes using AES 256.	Summarize your data encryption strategy and state what encryption options are available.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
DATA-05	Do all cryptographic modules in use in your product conform to the Federal Information Processing Standards (FIPS PUB 140-3)?	Yes	Instructure utilizes AES with at least 128 bits to encrypt data in transit and to encrypt volumes for data at rest. AES conforms to Annex A to FIPS PUB 140-3. Instructure's cryptographic implementations are not FIPS validated.	Provide reference to FIPS 140-3 validation certificates. 	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
DATA-06	"At the completion of this contract, will data be returned to the institution and deleted from all your systems and archives?"	Yes	"Customers have the ability to export data at any time during the contract directly through the UI (and up to 90 days after the end of the contract). Courses and course content can be exported in the 1EdTech Common Cartridge format. Quizzes can be exported in the 1EdTech QTI format. Additional course data, such as grades, submissions, and files, can also be downloaded or exported as needed. Files can be downloaded in their original format. Canvas Data functionality can also be used as a full extraction tool of your data at termination. On termination or expiration of your agreement with us, Instructure employs industry best practices to ensure customer data is removed from the system in order to prevent unauthorized or inadvertent access."	State the length of time that Institution's data will be available in the system at the completion of the contract.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
DATA-07	Will the institution's data be available within the system for a period of time at the completion of this contract?	Yes	"Per Instructure's standard Terms and Conditions, all data is available for 90 days following expiration or termination of the contract."	State the length of time that Institution's data will be available in the system at the completion of the contract	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
DATA-08	Can the Institution extract a full or partial backup of data?	Yes	"All past and current Canvas course data and content is maintained and remains fully accessible online. There is no additional cost for maintaining past Canvas course data and content online or for downloading partial backups.
 For full backups Canvas provides all the tools necessary to backup your data. Content export tools are available directly within the user interface, and through the API. Canvas' RESTful API is extremely robust and enables clients to programmatically extract data."	Provide a general summary of how full and partial backups of data can be extracted.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
DATA-09	"Are ownership rights to all data, inputs, outputs, and metadata retained by the institution?"	Yes	"Instructure does not claim ownership of any customer content. All customer content, including text, files, links, images, photos, videos, audio files, notes, metadata, data results, or any other materials uploaded by a user, remain the sole property of the customer. Note that Instructure may collect, use and own anonymized, aggregate data generated by the system in accordance with our Terms and Conditions for the sole purpose of providing and improving the Canvas service for our customers."	Provide reference to your data ownership documention.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
DATA-10	Are these rights retained even through a provider acquisition or bankruptcy event?	Yes	"Per Instructure's Terms and Conditions, all data is available for 90 days following expiration or termination of the contract. This remains the case in the event of bankruptcy, closing or business, or retirement of service.
 In the event of imminent termination, necessary personnel will be notified through appropriate means, including through email notification or phone call a dedicated Customer Success Manager. Additional notices may also be provided through mailing lists, the Instructure status page, or Canvas Community."	" Provide references, as needed."	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
DATA-11	"In the event of imminent bankruptcy, closing of business, or retirement of service, will you provide 90 days for customers to get their data out of the system and migrate applications?"	Yes	"Per Instructure's Terms and Conditions, all data is available for 90 days following expiration or termination of the contract. This remains the case in the event of bankruptcy, closing or business, or retirement of service.
 In the event of imminent termination, necessary personnel will be notified through appropriate means, including through email notification or phone call a dedicated Customer Success Manager. Additional notices may also be provided through mailing lists, the Instructure Status page, or Canvas Community."	State how the institution will be notified of imminent termination	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
DATA-12	Are involatile backup copies made according to pre-defined schedules and securely stored and protected?	Yes	"Canvas client data is backed-up automatically both in real-time and on a 24 hour schedule to multiple geographic locations within a customer's AWS hosting region, ensuring the security and reliability of data in the event of a disaster or outage of any scale. Database backups are done from one live database to another with no additional load on the system. Static files are stored on secure, geographically redundant storage systems."	"If your strategy uses different processes for services and data, ensure that all strategies are clearly stated and supported."	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
DATA-13	"Do current backups include all operating system software, utilities, security software, application software, and data files necessary for recovery?"	Yes	"Most structured data such as courses, user information, and assignments are stored in a relational, PostgreSQL database. Each database cluster has a primary and a secondary database, located in geographically separate sites. The data from each primary is replicated asynchronously in near-real time to its corresponding secondary. Each primary is also backed up completely every 24 hours, and the backup is stored in a third geographically separate site. This allows us to conduct Point-In-Time-Recovery (PITR) for up to 4 months of aged data, and perform monthly restores for 5-12 months of aged data. Static asset data (e.g. from courses and assignments) is stored on a scalable, protected, geographically redundant storage system (Amazon S3). Multiple copies are stored by Instructure as backups."	Decribe your overall strategy to accomplish these elements.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
DATA-14	Are you performing off site backups? (i.e. digitally moved off site)	Yes	"Digitally moved off-site recovery backups are immutable, encrypted using the AES-GCM 256-bit algorithm, and stored within a highly secured location."	Summarize your off site backup strategy.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
DATA-15	Are physical backups taken off site? (i.e. physically moved off site)	No		State any plans to implement off site physical backups in your environment.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
DATA-16	Do backups containing the institution's data ever leave the Institution's Data Zone either physically or via network routing?	No		 	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
DATA-17	Are data backups encrypted?	Yes	"Digital off-site recovery backups are immutable, encrypted using the AES-GCM 256-bit algorithm, and stored within a highly secured location."	Summarize the encryption algorithm/strategy you are using to secure backups.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
DATA-18	"Do you have a cryptographic key management process (generation, exchange, storage, safeguards, use, vetting, and replacement), that is documented and currently implemented, for all system components? (e.g. database, system, web, etc.)"	Yes	"Access to Instructure's architecture components are secured using AWS’s Key Management Service (KMS), allowing Instructure's Operations team to access encrypted data as needed. Instructure's Operations team controls generation and installation of keys for all employees with access to the servers. An automated configuration management system installs employee public keys on a per-server basis based on need. This same configuration process automatically revokes keys globally when necessary."	Summarize your cryptographic key management process.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
DATA-19	"Do you have a media handling process, that is documented and currently implemented that meets established business needs and regulatory requirements, including end-of-life, repurposing, and data sanitization procedures?"	Yes	"As part of our Data Handling and Classification policy, data is classified as one or more of the following: Public, Internal, Confidential. All customer data is categorized as confidential and Canvas data types are grouped into the following business classification scheme categories: User Data, Institution Data, System Data, Analytics Data, and Business Intelligence Data. The policy contains details on data in transit, data at rest, access controls, data retention, and data destruction and is aligned with ISO 27001 and SOC 2 standards."	Provide documented details of this process (link or attached).	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
DATA-20	Does the process described in DATA-19 adhere to DoD 5220.22-M and/or NIST SP 800-88 standards?	Yes	"AWS uses techniques detailed in DoD 5220.22-M or NIST SP 800-88 to destroy data as part of the decommissioning process. If a hardware device is unable to be decommissioned using these procedures, the device will be degaussed or physically destroyed in accordance with industry-standard practices."	0	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
DATA-21	"Is media used for long-term retention of business data and archival purposes stored in a secure, environmentally protected area?"	Yes	"Instructure ensures data is properly treated and protected according to its classification and retention schedule. Records no longer routinely referenced, but that must be retained, are stored in long-term storage that ensures their integrity, security and confidentiality. Client data is always stored securely using AES 256-bit encryption."	Provide a general summary of your archival environment.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
DATA-22	Will you handle data in a FERPA compliant manner?	Yes	"Canvas was built to comply with FERPA by design, and readily integrates with other systems to prevent unauthorized access to FERPA-protected data. Whether implemented as a standalone system or as a fully integrated component of the campus IT/IS infrastructure, Canvas provides educational institutions and agencies with multiple mechanisms and technologies to manage, enforce, and comply with the provisions of FERPA and to fulfill their responsibilities under its requirements."	Describe how FERPA compliance is integrated into your process and procedures.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
DATA-23	"Does your staff (or third party) have access to Institutional data (e.g., financial, PHI or other sensitive information) through any means?"	Yes	"Our customer support and engineering staff have access to customer data to be able to provide customer support and the service. Access is strictly controlled, granted, revoked, and logged. Access to customer data is via multi-factor authentication using an SSO system.
 
 Our Data Handling and Classification Policy, along with Information Security, is included in our employment terms and conditions, and all employees are required to undertake comprehensive training both at hire and annually thereafter. There is a formal disciplinary process in place to enforce data handling (and all security policies), and actions are taken up to and including dismissal depending on the severity of the issue. We use a number of internal tools and platforms to ensure access rights integrity, including ensuring that only approved staff have access to customer data where absolutely necessary."	Summarize what access staff (or third parties) have to institutional data.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
DATA-24	Do you have a documented and currently implemented strategy for securing employee workstations when they work remotely? (i.e. not in a trusted computing environment)	Yes	"Instructure maintains an IT Acceptable Use Policy that addresses the acceptable use of work from home (WFH) devices and outlines prohibited uses such as jailbroken devices, storing of customer data, or using devices without Instructure's DM-profile present. Instructure's DM platforms (Jamf & Azure), can track, manage, and secure Instructure owned devices remotely on demand."	Provide a detailed summary outlining the security controls implemented to protect the Institution's data.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
Datacenter		Vendor Answers	Additional Information	Guidance	Analyst Notes																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
DCTR-01	Does the hosting provider have a SOC 2 Type 2 report available?			 	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
DCTR-02	Are you generally able to accommodate storing each institution's data within their geographic region?	Yes	"Customer's data in Canvas LMS does not leave their geographic region. For example, our U.S. customers' data resides in the United States. Canadian customer data resides in Canada. Latin America customer data resides in the United States. United Kingdom and European Union customer data resides in the EU. And, lastly, Asia Pacific customer data resides in Asia Pacific. Some non-Canvas customer data such as that required for providing sales and technical support may reside in the United States for non-US customers. For example, LoginID, IP Address, Name, and Email. For more information, please refer to https://www.instructure.com/policies/product-privacy-policy."	0	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
DCTR-03	"Are the data centers staffed 24 hours a day, seven days a week (i.e., 24x7x365)?"			 	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
DCTR-04	"Are your servers separated from other companies via a physical barrier, such as a cage or hardened walls?"			 	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
DCTR-05	Does a physical barrier fully enclose the physical space preventing unauthorized physical contact with any of your devices?			 	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
DCTR-06	Are your primary and secondary data centers geographically diverse?	Yes	"All data for our customers is hosted within their geographical AWS region, and for the purposes of disaster recovery, in each region we operate, we utilize 3 geographically diverse Availability Zones (AZ)."	"State your primary and secondary data center locations. For cloud infrastructures, state the primary and secondary zones."	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
DCTR-07	"If outsourced or co-located, is there a contract in place to prevent data from leaving the Institution's Data Zone?"	Yes	Instructure has complete control over the data hosting model. All data resides within our customers' geographical region.	Summarize the strategy for removing Institution's data from its Data Zone.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
DCTR-08	What Tier Level is your data center (per levels defined by the Uptime Institute)?			Review the Uptime Institute's level/tier direction provided on their website if you need addition information	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
DCTR-09	Is the service hosted in a high availability environment?	Yes	"Canvas LMS is hosted in a high availability environment provided by AWS. This allows Canvas to provide automated provisioning under heavy load, data redundancy and failover across geographies, and hands-free updates that rarely require downtime. The Canvas application is designed to make full use of the real-time redundancy and capacity capabilities offered by AWS, running across multiple availability zones in regions throughout the world. We both guarantee and consistently deliver a 99.9% annual uptime."	Provide a summary to support your response selection.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
DCTR-10	Is redundant power available for all datacenters where institution data will reside? 			 	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
DCTR-11	Are redundant power strategies tested?			 	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
DCTR-12	Describe or provide a reference to the availability of cooling and fire suppression systems in all datacenters where institution data will reside.			Ensure that all parts of DCTR-12 are clearly stated in your response.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
DCTR-13	Do you have Internet Service Provider (ISP) Redundancy?			State the ISP provider(s) in addition to the number of ISPs that provide connectivity.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
DCTR-14	Does every datacenter where the Institution's data will reside have multiple telephone company or network provider entrances to the facility?			 	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
DCTR-15	Are you requiring multi-factor authentication for administrators of your cloud environment?	Yes	"Access to the Canvas cloud architecture back-end is via a combination of VPN, MFA, SSH, and digital keys managed using Amazon's KMS (KMS is certified via the Cryptographic Module Validation Program)."	State which model of MFA you are using.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
DCTR-16	Are you using your cloud providers available hardening tools or pre-hardened images?	Yes	We utilize AWS Machine Images (AMIs) and further harden these images with internal configuration and hardening by default.	 	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
DCTR-17	Does your cloud vendor have access to your encryption keys?	No	"Access to Canvas LMS’s architecture components, including databases, are secured using AWS’ Key Management Service (KMS). KMS is integrated with Canvas' various architecture components, allowing Instructure's Operations team to access encrypted data as needed. Instructure’s Operations team controls generation and installation of keys for all employees with access to the servers. An automated configuration management system installs employee public keys on a per-server basis based on need. This same configuration process automatically revokes keys globally when necessary. Instructure has strict policies on who is given keys."	0	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
DRP - Respond to as many questions below as possible.		Vendor Answers	Additional Information	Guidance	Analyst Notes																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
DRPL-01	Describe or provide a reference to your Disaster Recovery Plan (DRP).	"Instructure has a documented Business Continuity/Disaster Recovery plan. These plans are tested at least annually in full, and we frequently test our ability to restore from backup as part of our regular release cycle, as non-production sites are populated from production backups.

Please see our Instructure Business Continuity and Disaster Recovery Paper which is part of the Canvas LMS Compliance Package."		N/A	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
DRPL-02	Is an owner assigned who is responsible for the maintenance and review of the DRP?	Yes	Instructure's Disaster Recovery Plan is owned by the Security and Compliance Team and reviewed annually. It is provided to stakeholders for review and supported by both the Executive Leadership Team and Engineering Team.	"State the responsible owner, or position title."	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
DRPL-03	Can the Institution review your DRP and supporting documentation?	Yes	Please see our Instructure Business Continuity and Disaster Recovery Paper which is part of the Canvas LMS Compliance Package.	Provide DRP with your submission of this fully-populated HECVAT	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
DRPL-04	Are any disaster recovery locations outside the Institution's geographic region?	No	"Disaster Recovery locations reside within the Institution's Data Zone and geographical location. Customer data is backed up to different AWS Availability Zones (separate data centers) within their geographical region. For privacy and data sovereignty, data never leaves a customer's geographical region and all backups and disaster recovery measures stay in-region. Details about where the data resides for each region is listed below:
 For United States and Latin America clients:
 • Virginia (US-East-1)
 • Oregon (US-West-1)
 
 For Canadian clients:
 • Montreal, CA (CA-Central-1)
 
 For European clients:
 • Ireland (EU-West-1)
 • Frankfurt (EU-Central-1)
 
 For clients in Asia Pacific:
 • Singapore (AP-Southeast-1)
 • Sydney (AP-Southeast-2)"	0	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
DRPL-05	Does your organization have a disaster recovery site or a contracted Disaster Recovery provider?	Yes	"All potential disasters will be escalated immediately to the identified incident response officer who is authorized to declare a disaster. The incident response officer will be responsible for assessing the event and confirming the disaster. Once the disaster is declared, the incident response officer will be responsible for directing recovery efforts and notifications. Complete details are contained within Instructure's Business Continuity and Disaster Recovery Paper which covers the following items:
 • Establish communication between the individuals necessary to execute recovery
 • Determine steps necessary to recover completely from the disaster
 • Execute the recovery steps
 • Verify that recovery is complete
 • Inform the incident officer of completion
 
 Canvas LMS is hosted in multiple regions around the world. For each region, there is a designated Disaster Recovery site."	Summarize your disaster recovery strategy including the type of availability your disaster recovery site provides.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
DRPL-06	Does your organization conduct an annual test of relocating to this site for disaster recovery purposes?	Yes	"Instructure's Director of Operations is responsible for ensuring that the plan is tested annually and whenever major components are changed. The ability to restore from backup is tested more frequently as part of our regular release cycle, as non-production sites are populated from production DR back-ups.
 
 Further to this, the ability to restore from backup is tested more frequently as part of our regular release cycle, since non-production sites are populated from production back-ups. However, full physical relocation (i.e. moving physical AWS regions) is not annually tested by Instructure since AWS maintain availability of their sites. For more information, please see the Instructure Business Continuity and Disaster Recovery Paper which is part of the Canvas LMS Compliance Package."	Summarize your disaster recovery relocation testing strategy.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
DRPL-07	Is there a defined problem/issue escalation plan in your DRP for impacted clients?	Yes	Please see our Business Continuity and Disaster Recovery Paper which is part of the Canvas LMS Compliance Package.	Summarize your problem/issue escalation plan.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
DRPL-08	Is there a documented communication plan in your DRP for impacted clients?	Yes	"To summarize, impacted customers and business partners will be notified immediately if a disaster is declared. The notification will include a description of the event, the effect to the service, and any potential impact to data. Impacted customers and business partners will be kept up to date throughout the disaster recovery process via phone, messaging, and/or email. We will also post official status updates on status.instructure.com. Once recovery is complete and services have resumed, our customer notifications will include general information about the steps taken to recovery, and any data that may have been impacted. If the recovery is partial and the service is still in a degraded state, notifications will include an estimate of how long the degradation will continue."	Summarize your documented communication plan in your DRP.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
DRPL-09	"Describe or provide a reference to how your disaster recovery plan is tested? (i.e. scope of DR tests, end-to-end testing, etc.)"	"We conduct annual table-top exercises which discuss simulated emergency situations and allow the DRT to discuss our processes and plans to manage both an incident and the aftermath of a natural or human-made disaster. Typically, for our tabletop testing we focus on the more extreme scenarios, such as the loss of an availability zone and/or hosting region. Any changes or revisions of a DR response are then captured and updated in our formal Disaster Recovery Plan."		N/A	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
DRPL-10	Has the Disaster Recovery Plan been tested in the last year?	Yes	Tabletop testing occurs annually.	Please provide a summary of the results in Additional Information (including actual recovery time).	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
DRPL-11	Are all components of the DRP reviewed at least annually and updated as needed to reflect change?	Yes	Instructure's DRP is reviewed in its entirety at least annually and updated to reflect any changes needed.	Summarize your DRP review and update processes and/or procedures.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
"Firewalls, IDS, IPS, and Networking"		Vendor Answers	Additional Information	Guidance	Analyst Notes																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
FIDP-01	Are you utilizing a stateful packet inspection (SPI) firewall?	Yes	"Canvas utilizes AWS Security Groups which perform stateful packet inspection on all rules. The AWS SG firewall keeps track of the state of network connections (such as TCP streams, UDP communication) traveling across it."	Describe the currently implemented SPI firewall.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
FIDP-02	Is authority for firewall change approval documented?  Please list approver names or titles in Additional Info	Yes	"Firewall changes on our cloud infrastructure configuration occur via Terraform and Ansible by authorized Instructure Security Team administrators. These configurations are managed in source control and records of modifications are under change control. Where technically feasible, baseline configurations are aligned to best practices. Multi-factor authentication is required."	List approver names or titles.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
FIDP-03	Do you have a documented policy for firewall change requests?	Yes	Instructure has an internal Network Security Policy document which provides requirements for any changes to the infrastructure.	Describe your documented firewall change request policy.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
FIDP-04	Have you implemented an Intrusion Detection System (network-based)?	Yes	Please see FIDP-05	Describe the currently implemented IDS.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
FIDP-05	Have you implemented an Intrusion Prevention System (network-based)?	Yes	"Instructure employs AWS GuardDuty for native, persistent intrusion detection on all Canvas applications. We review GuardDuty configuration on a quarterly basis and ensure it is applied to and working on all AWS accounts. GuardDuty uses machine learning, anomaly detection, and integrated threat intelligence to identify and prioritize potential and persistent threats. Threat intelligence coupled with machine learning and behavior models help detect activity such as cryptocurrency mining, credential compromise behavior, communication with known command-and-control servers, or API calls from known malicious IPs. Alerts are forwarded to the Instructure Security Team and all output is sent to Instructure's centralized logging management system for further analysis and alert generation."	Describe the currently implemented IPS.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
FIDP-06	Do you employ host-based intrusion detection?	Yes	We utilize OSSEC to monitor host-based intrusions on our sensitive system components.	Describe the currently implemented host-based IDS solution(s).	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
FIDP-07	Do you employ host-based intrusion prevention?	Yes	Please see FIDP-06	Describe the currently implemented host-based IPS solution(s).	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
FIDP-08	Are you employing any next-generation persistent threat (NGPT) monitoring?	Yes	"Instructure utilizes AWS’ Security Hub, a cloud security posture management (CSPM) service, that performs security best practice checks, aggregates alerts, and enables automated remediation. We also utilise AWS Inspector for vulnerability scanning, which scans all our instances in near-real time for vulnerabilities and any unintended network exposure. This gives us a much shorter Mean Time to Remediate (MTTR) and expedites vulnerability routing using multiple sources of vulnerability intelligence and current common vulnerabilities and exposures (CVE) information."	Describe your NGPT monitoring strategy.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
FIDP-09	Do you monitor for intrusions on a 24x7x365 basis?	Yes	Instructure uses AWS GuardDuty to alert and inform on security incidents occurring against Instructure's services hosted in AWS. All output is sent to Instructure's centralized logging management system for further analysis and alert generation. This monitoring occurs 24x7x365.	Provide a brief summary of this activity.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
FIDP-10	Is intrusion monitoring performed internally or by a third-party service?	Yes	Network layer monitoring is provided by Amazon Web Services (AWS). Software layer monitoring is provided internally by Instructure.	0	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
FIDP-11	"Are audit logs available for all changes to the network, firewall, IDS, and IPS systems?"	Yes	All output from these systems is sent to Instructure's centralized logging management system for further analysis and alert generation.	Describe your current network systems logging strategy.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
"Policies, Procedures, and Processes"		Vendor Answers	Additional Information	Guidance	Analyst Notes																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
PPPR-01	"Can you share the organization chart, mission statement, and policies for your information security unit?"	Yes	"Instructure's security program is overseen by our Chief Information Security and Privacy Officer (CISPO) who is accountable for the implementation and execution of company policies, audits, and ensuring the security program conforms to the relevant ISO/IEC 27000, AICPA SOC, and other applicable security standards. Members of Instructure's security team have many years of experience with security audits by major corporations and government agencies.
 
 Instructure's information security policies and standards are based on information security best practices as set forth by the ISO 27000 suite of standards, NIST 800-53 suite of controls, and the AICPA's Trust Service Principles and Criteria."	Provide a links to these documents in Additional Information or attach them with your submission.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
PPPR-02	Do you have a documented patch management process?	Yes	"Regular vulnerability scans of the Canvas LMS application and our infrastructure are conducted using third-party tools, custom scripts, and various open source tools. If any vulnerabilities are detected, Instructure's security and engineering teams work together to analyze, design, and develop the required patch. At Instructure, we assess security risks based on two factors: Impact and Likelihood.
 
 _ Impact: Impact is the perceived, calculated, or actual impact that might occur if the identified vulnerability is exploited.
 _ Likelihood: Likelihood is the probability of the vulnerability being exploited.
 
Each of these factors are then rated High, Medium, or Low. For example, if a High security risk is detected that has a near-and-present-danger, fixing the vulnerability is given the highest priority by Instructure’s security and engineering teams and security patches as such will be applied within twenty-four (24) hours by best commercial efforts. In most cases, vulnerabilities can be fixed using a hot patch without incurring any downtime to the Canvas production environment. Other patches to the operating system, application software, and code libraries are rated accordingly. The Overall Risk is calculated by taking the lesser of the two values. (e.g., if Likelihood = Low, and the Impact = High, the Overall Risk = Low). The Overall Risk is then used to prioritize the mitigation of vulnerabilities. We will not hesitate to raise a security risk-level where necessary for the safety and protection of our customers.
 
 Our vulnerability remediation timelines are as follows:
 _ Critical: ASAP
 _ High: Within 30 days
 _ Moderate: Within 90 days
 _ Low: Within 180 days"	0	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
PPPR-03	Can you accommodate encryption requirements using open standards?	Yes	"Canvas LMS uses HTTPS (HTTP over TLS) to encrypt data in transit. All inbound and outbound traffic is encrypted to ensure that all personally-identifiable information, credentials exchange, page requests, and session data are secure, and data is also encrypted while at rest within the database using AES-256-bit encryption. Canvas uses TLS 1.2, forward-secrecy-compliant cipher suites whenever possible (e.g. ECDHE-RSA-AES128-GCM-SHA256 / TLS_AES_128_GCM_SHA256). The acceptable cipher suite list is constantly maintained to ensure that no vulnerabilities are present.
 
 Sessions are maintained and can be invalidated if necessary. An encrypted session cookie, signed with a hash message authentication code (HMAC), is used to identify a current session. The HMAC and cookie contents are encrypted with Advanced Encryption Standard (AES)-256 in cipher feedback (CFB) mode. The contents of the cookie cannot be hijacked during transmission across the network, cannot be viewed or tampered with by the user, and cannot be accessed through JavaScript. Session IDs are compared and validated against the server-stored values."	0	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
PPPR-04	Are information security principles designed into the product lifecycle?	Yes	"Information security principles are designed into the product lifecycle and are based on the Open Web Application Security Project (OWASP) secure coding practices, security auditing, code review documents, and other community sources on best security practices."	Summarize the information security principles designed into the product lifecycle.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
PPPR-05	Do you have a documented systems development life cycle (SDLC)?	Yes	"Instructure has a documented systems development life cycle (SDLC), based on the Agile methodology, which incorporates industry best-practices and results in twice-monthly production releases."	Briefly summarize your SDLC or provide a link or attacjhment.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
PPPR-06	Will you comply with applicable breach notification laws?	Yes	Instructure will comply with all applicable breach notification laws and response times. Instructure has not experienced a breach to date.	State how quickly the Institution will be notified of a data breach or security incident.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
PPPR-07	Will you comply with the Institution's IT policies with regards to user privacy and data protection?	Yes	"Instructure abides by all applicable laws and regulations in the regions and countries it operates. Additionally, Canvas LMS maintains several existing privacy and data protection policies in alignment with SOC 2 Type II controls which have been independently audited and confirmed. Should the institution have policy compliance requirements beyond Instructure's current policies, we will negotiate in good faith once a contract is awarded."	State that you have reviewed the Institution's IT policies with regards to user privacy and data protection.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
PPPR-08	Is your company subject to Institution's geographic region's laws and regulations?	Yes		0	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
PPPR-09	Do you perform background screenings or multi-state background checks on all employees prior to their first day of work?	Yes	"Instructure performs criminal background checks on all employees and contractors during the hiring process, and employment is contingent based on the results of the background check. Additional credit background checks are performed on key financial employees."	Summarize your background check practices.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
PPPR-10	Do you require new employees to fill out agreements and review policies?	Yes	"All our employees sign contracts that include clauses on confidentiality of information. Additionally, all on-boarded Instructure employees are required to read, understand, and sign FERPA and COPPA compliance forms."	Summarize the required agreements and reviewed policies.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
PPPR-11	Do you have a documented information security policy?	Yes	"All our employees sign contracts that include clauses on confidentiality of information. Additionally, all on-boarded Instructure employees are required to read, understand, and sign FERPA and COPPA compliance forms."	Provide a reference to your information security policy or submit documentation with this fully-populated HECVAT-Lite.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
PPPR-12	Do you have an information security awareness program?	Yes	"Instructure maintains a documented information security policy which is reviewed at least annually and approved by relevant stakeholders and the Information Security Team. The purpose of the policy is to describe Instructure's overarching security policy for protecting and securing Instructure's assets. Assets include, but are not limited to data, people, buildings, systems, applications, mechanisms, processes, and use of third parties. The policy also instantiates Instructure's security program, which is a systematic approach to establishing, implementing, operating, monitoring, reviewing, maintaining, and improving Instructure's security program (and supporting processes). Instructure's security policy and program are created based on guidance provided by ISO/IEC 27000:2018 and controls described in ISO/IEC 27001:2013. Instructure is ISO 27001:2013 certified and maintains a SOC 2 Type II report for Canvas LMS."	Summarize your information security awareness program.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
PPPR-13	Is security awareness training mandatory for all employees?	Yes	"All Instructure personnel are required to complete Instructure's Compliance, Privacy, and Security Awareness Training within 30 days of hire as per our employment terms and conditions, and annually thereafter. The content of this training includes all relevant areas of security (online, mobile, physical, MFA etc.), privacy, and compliance requirements for each employee - including our policies. There is a formal disciplinary process in place to enforce security policies, and actions are taken up to and including dismissal if policies are not followed."	Summarize your security awareness training content and state how frequently employees are required to undergo security awareness training.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
PPPR-14	"Do you have process and procedure(s) documented, and currently followed, that require a review and update of the access-list(s) for privileged accounts?"	Yes	"Instructure maintains an access policy for the provisioning of all user accounts. This policy is reviewed annually. User account access is reviewed quarterly. The policy is based on the principle of least privilege, meaning we only grant users access confined to their authorized role requirements. Users are on-boarded with a default set of base permissions to low-risk functions. Permissions above the base set of permissions requires a documented request and approval prior to provisioning access. All access - including privileged access - is logged, audited and reviewed regularly. Users who are transferred to a new position or department have their existing level of access and permissions reviewed and adjusted (as needed) to retain only the permissions necessary for the new position. Terminated employee user identifiers, authenticators, and permissions are disabled immediately when an employee leaves the organisation."	Provide a brief summary and the implement review interval.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
PPPR-15	"Do you have documented, and currently implemented, internal audit processes and procedures?"	Yes	"Instructure's security team conducts monthly vulnerability audit scans of the production environment and completes an annual assessment of key security controls. The security team conducts thorough, comprehensive, prescriptive, internal security audits. In these audits, the security team:
 • Scans the application externally, using both off-the-shelf and custom internally-built tools.
 • Documents potential vulnerabilities, recommends fixes, and implements the most advantageous fix. The fixes are then retested, by both the original discoverer(s) and other, new-to-the-problem team members.
 • Pushes fixes made in external libraries to the upstream development activities to be immediately applied and included in official packages instead of waiting for the next scheduled release."	Summarize your internal audit processes and procedures.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
PPPR-16	Does your organization have physical security controls and policies in place?	Yes	"At Instructure offices, where no client data is stored, electronic surveillance, physical authentication mechanisms, and reception desks are implemented. AWS physical security controls include but are not limited to perimeter controls such as fencing, walls, security staff, video surveillance, intrusion detection systems and other electronic means. Refer to ISO 27001 standards; Annex A, domain 11 for further information. AWS has been validated and certified by an independent auditor to confirm alignment with ISO 27001 certification standard."	Provide a copy of your physical security controls and policies along with this document (link or attached).	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
Incident Handling		Vendor Answers	Additional Information	Guidance	Analyst Notes																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
HFIH-01	Do you have a formal incident response plan?	Yes	Instructure maintains a formal Incident Response Policy and Plan which is reviewed at least annually.	Summarize or provide a link to your formal incident response plan.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
HFIH-02	Do you have either an internal incident response team or retain an external team?	Yes	"At the first sign of an incident, Instructure's Chief Information Security Officer will assemble an internal incident response team. The composition and charge of the team will depend upon the type of breach and resulting data exposure. The team conducts a preliminary assessment to help develop a tailored response. Once the incident is contained, this team will also evaluate changes in processes, systems and/or policies to prevent a repeat event."	Summarize your incident response and reporting processes.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
HFIH-03	Do you have the capability to respond to incidents on a 24x7x365 basis?	Yes	PagerDuty sends alerts 24x7x365 for investigation and response around the clock.	Summarize your internal approach or reference your third party contractor.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
HFIH-04	"Do you carry cyber-risk insurance to protect against unforeseen service outages, data that is lost or stolen, and security incidents?"	Yes	"Instructure's general liability insurance includes Cyber Errors & Omissions coverage (referred to as ""Professional Errors & Omission""). Instructure's certificate of liability insurance is provided with the Canvas LMS Compliance Package."	Describe the coverage in place for this product	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
Quality Assurance		Vendor Answers	Additional Information	Guidance	Analyst Notes																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
QLAS-01	Do you have a documented and currently implemented Quality Assurance program?	Yes	"Instructure applies an Agile methodology with an integrated Quality Assurance (QA) program to the design, development, and maintenance of Canvas. Instructure's Quality Assurance Program is documented and implemented, with a review conducted at least annually. Engineers write automated unit and integration tests to cover all new code that is written. In addition, all code changes are run through our full QA test suite before they can be accepted into the product. Code changes are closely reviewed and must be peer-approved by other engineering team members before inclusion in the upgrade/update package."	0	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
QLAS-02	Do you comply with ISO 9001?	No	"Canvas is a SaaS application that is hosted by AWS, which is certified in ISO 9001."	Describe plans and/or efforts towards certification.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
QLAS-03	Will your company provide quality and performance metrics in relation to the scope of services and performance expectations for the services you are offering?	Yes	"Our figures for uptime, performance, and overall availability are completely transparent, which means that all users can track our performance at inst.bid/status on demand. Instructure guarantees a 99.9% uptime."	Provide references to quality and performance metrics documentation.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
QLAS-04	Do you incorporate customer feedback into security feature requests?	Yes	"We love customer feedback. Instructure has an extensive community of users that continuously provide us with valuable feedback on our features, including security feature requests. Our users constantly inspire and drive us to enhance and extend our product features and functionality, and we are heavily influenced by their feedback, whether it's received via our support team, Customer Success Managers (CSMs), or directly from our Community."	Provide a list of higher ed references or a route for campuses to request references	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
QLAS-05	Can you provide an evaluation site to the institution for testing?	Yes	"Prospective Customers: We can provide a sandbox environment to qualifying prospective customers for early access to help guide during the selection process. This sandbox environment is provided at no additional cost and is typically available for 30-45 days.

Free for Teacher: Prospective customers and individuals can also set up a Free for Teacher Canvas account at https://inst.bid/try-canvas to explore Canvas LMS at their leisure. While registering for the Free for Teacher, customers can also request a demo of the full Canvas ecosystem, and we will schedule an expert to conduct a full walk through of the software."	Summarize your evaluation site or provide a link.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
Vulnerability Scanning		Vendor Answers	Additional Information	Guidance	Analyst Notes																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
VULN-01	Are your systems and applications regularly scanned externally for vulnerabilities?	Yes	"Third-party testing occurs year round and is performed by BugCrowd, utilizing a collection of crowd sourced security professionals to conduct human application vulnerability testing on an ongoing basis via our bug bounty program."	Decribe your external application vulnerability scanning strategy.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
VULN-02	Have your systems and applications had a third party security assessment completed in the last year?	Yes	"Third-party vulnerability testing occurs annually, as well as via our Bug Bounty program performed by BugCrowd, the results of which we make available to customers on request."	"Provide the results with this document (link or attached), if possible. State the date of the last completed third party security assessment."	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
VULN-03	Are your systems and applications scanned with an authenticated user account for vulnerabilities [that are remediated] prior to new releases?	Yes	"Regular vulnerability scans of the Canvas application and our infrastructure are conducted using third-party tools, custom scripts, and various open source tools. If any vulnerabilities are detected, Instructure's security and engineering teams work together to analyze, design, and develop the required patch."	Provide a brief description.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
VULN-04	Will you provide results of application and system vulnerability scans to the Institution?	Yes	See VULN-02	Provide a reference to security scan documentation.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
VULN-05	"Describe or provide a reference to how you monitor for and protect against common web application security vulnerabilities (e.g. SQL injection, XSS, XSRF, etc.)."	Yes	"Instructure conducts regular application-layer vulnerability scans using a variety of third-party tools for dynamic code scanning. These tools crawl the Canvas application and test for SQL Injection, XSS, XXE, SSRF, Host Header Injection and over 7,000 other web vulnerabilities. Instructure also scans endpoints, performs attacker-based risk analysis, and scans third-party libraries and dependencies used by the Canvas application. Log files from these vulnerability scans are then aggregated into our SIEM, Splunk, which allows Instructure's Security Team to manage and review logs in a single location."	0	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
VULN-06	Will you allow the institution to perform its own vulnerability testing and/or scanning of your systems and/or application provided that testing is performed at a mutually agreed upon time and date?	Yes	"We allow customers sponsored/run vulnerability assessments as long as the following conditions are met:

 _ Customer is under active MNDA (terms and conditions)
 _ Customer agrees to not share results with any third party
 _ Customer agrees to share the results with Instructure
 _ Customer agrees to only target their test non-production environment
 _ Customer gives Instructure one week's notice of the planned test date*
 _ The penetration test is restricted to scanning mode only
 _ Preferably, the Customer performs the testing during low utilization times, which tend to be 23:00 - 04:00 local time
 
 *For confirmation and acknowledgement of a scheduled customer-run vulnerability test, please first contact your dedicated Customer Success Manager."	Provide reference to the process or procedure to setup security testing times and scopes.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
HIPAA - Optional based on QUALIFIER response.		Vendor Answers	Additional Information	Guidance	Analyst Notes																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
HIPA-01	Do your workforce members receive regular training related to the HIPAA Privacy and Security Rules and the HITECH Act?			Refer to HIPAA regulations documentation for supplemental guidance in this section.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
HIPA-02	Do you monitor or receive information regarding changes in HIPAA regulations?			Refer to HIPAA regulations documentation for supplemental guidance in this section.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
HIPA-03	Has your organization designated HIPAA Privacy and Security officers as required by the Rules?			Refer to HIPAA regulations documentation for supplemental guidance in this section.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
HIPA-04	Do you comply with the requirements of the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act (HITECH)?			Refer to HIPAA regulations documentation for supplemental guidance in this section.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
HIPA-05	Have you conducted a risk analysis as required under the Security Rule?			Refer to HIPAA regulations documentation for supplemental guidance in this section.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
HIPA-06	Have you identified areas of risks?			Refer to HIPAA regulations documentation for supplemental guidance in this section.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
HIPA-07	Have you taken actions to mitigate the identified risks?			Refer to HIPAA regulations documentation for supplemental guidance in this section.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
HIPA-08	Does your application require user and system administrator password changes at a frequency no greater than 90 days?			Refer to HIPAA regulations documentation for supplemental guidance in this section.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
HIPA-09	Does your application require a user to set their own password after an administrator reset or on first use of the account?			Refer to HIPAA regulations documentation for supplemental guidance in this section.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
HIPA-10	Does your application lock-out an account after a number of failed login attempts? 			Refer to HIPAA regulations documentation for supplemental guidance in this section.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
HIPA-11	Does your application automatically lock or log-out an account after a period of inactivity?			Refer to HIPAA regulations documentation for supplemental guidance in this section.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
HIPA-12	"Are passwords visible in plain text, whether when stored or entered, including service level accounts (i.e. database accounts, etc.)?"			Refer to HIPAA regulations documentation for supplemental guidance in this section.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
HIPA-13	"If the application is institution-hosted, can all service level and administrative account passwords be changed by the institution?"			Refer to HIPAA regulations documentation for supplemental guidance in this section.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
HIPA-14	Does your application provide the ability to define user access levels?			Refer to HIPAA regulations documentation for supplemental guidance in this section.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
HIPA-15	Does your application support varying levels of access to administrative tasks defined individually per user?			Refer to HIPAA regulations documentation for supplemental guidance in this section.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
HIPA-16	Does your application support varying levels of access to records based on user ID?			Refer to HIPAA regulations documentation for supplemental guidance in this section.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
HIPA-17	Is there a limit to the number of groups a user can be assigned?			Refer to HIPAA regulations documentation for supplemental guidance in this section.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
HIPA-18	Do accounts used for vendor supplied remote support abide by the same authentication policies and access logging as the rest of the system?			Refer to HIPAA regulations documentation for supplemental guidance in this section.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
HIPA-19	"Does the application log record access including specific user, date/time of access, and originating IP or device? "			Refer to HIPAA regulations documentation for supplemental guidance in this section.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
HIPA-20	"Does the application log administrative activity, such user account access changes and password changes, including specific user, date/time of changes, and originating IP or device?"			Refer to HIPAA regulations documentation for supplemental guidance in this section.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
HIPA-21	How long does the application keep access/change logs?			Refer to HIPAA regulations documentation for supplemental guidance in this section.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
HIPA-22	Can the application logs be archived? 			Refer to HIPAA regulations documentation for supplemental guidance in this section.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
HIPA-23	Can the application logs be saved externally? 			Refer to HIPAA regulations documentation for supplemental guidance in this section.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
HIPA-24	Does your data backup and retention policies and practices meet HIPAA requirements?			Refer to HIPAA regulations documentation for supplemental guidance in this section.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
HIPA-25	Do you have a disaster recovery plan and emergency mode operation plan?			Refer to HIPAA regulations documentation for supplemental guidance in this section.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
HIPA-26	Have the policies/plans mentioned above been tested?			Refer to HIPAA regulations documentation for supplemental guidance in this section.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
HIPA-27	Can you provide a HIPAA compliance attestation document?			Refer to HIPAA regulations documentation for supplemental guidance in this section.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
HIPA-28	Are you willing to enter into a Business Associate Agreement (BAA)?			Refer to HIPAA regulations documentation for supplemental guidance in this section.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
HIPA-29	Have you entered into a BAA with all subcontractors who may have access to protected health information (PHI)?			Refer to HIPAA regulations documentation for supplemental guidance in this section.	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
PCI DSS		Vendor Answers	Additional Information	Guidance	Analyst Notes																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
PCID-01	"Do your systems or products store, process, or transmit cardholder (payment/credit/debt card) data?"			Refer to PCI DSS Security Standards for supplemental guidance in this section	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
PCID-02	Are you compliant with the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS)?			Refer to PCI DSS Security Standards for supplemental guidance in this section	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
PCID-03	"Do you have a current, executed within the past year, Attestation of Compliance (AoC) or Report on Compliance (RoC)?"			Refer to PCI DSS Security Standards for supplemental guidance in this section	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
PCID-04	Are you classified as a service provider?			Refer to PCI DSS Security Standards for supplemental guidance in this section	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
PCID-05	Are you on the list of VISA approved service providers? 			Refer to PCI DSS Security Standards for supplemental guidance in this section	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
PCID-06	"Are you classified as a merchant?  If so, what level (1, 2, 3, 4)?"			Refer to PCI DSS Security Standards for supplemental guidance in this section	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
PCID-07	Describe the architecture employed by the system to verify and authorize credit card transactions.			Refer to PCI DSS Security Standards for supplemental guidance in this section	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
PCID-08	What payment processors/gateways does the system support? 			Refer to PCI DSS Security Standards for supplemental guidance in this section	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
PCID-09	Can the application be installed in a PCI DSS compliant manner ?			Refer to PCI DSS Security Standards for supplemental guidance in this section	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
PCID-10	Is the application listed as an approved PA-DSS application? 			Refer to PCI DSS Security Standards for supplemental guidance in this section	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
PCID-11	"Does the system or products use a third party to collect, store, process, or transmit cardholder (payment/credit/debt card) data?"			Refer to PCI DSS Security Standards for supplemental guidance in this section	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
PCID-12	Include documentation describing the systems' abilities to comply with the PCI DSS and any features or capabilities of the system that must be added or changed in order to operate in compliance with the standards. 			Refer to PCI DSS Security Standards for supplemental guidance in this section	 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										