CoSN K-12 Community Vendor Assessment Tool (CVAT) - Lite				Version 4.1																					
																									
DATE-01	Date	03/21/2024																							
General Information																									
"In order to protect the institution (school, district or service district) and its systems, vendors whose products and/or services will access and/or host institutional data must complete the CoSN K-12 Community Vendor Assessment Toolkit. Throughout this tool, anywhere where the term data is used, this is an all-encompassing term including at least data and metadata. Answers will be reviewed by institution security analysts upon submittal. This process will assist the institution in preventing breaches of protected information and comply with institution policy, state, and federal law. This is intended for use by vendors and should be completed by the vendor."																									
GNRL-01 through GNRL-15; populated by Vendor																									
GNRL-01	Vendor Name	Instructure																							
GNRL-02	Product Name	Canvas LMS																							
GNRL-03	Product Description	A cloud-based learning management system (LMS).																							
GNRL-04	Web Link to Product Privacy Notice	https://inst.bid/privacy																							
GNRL-05	Vendor Contact Name	See GNRL-07 for Instructure's contact information.																							
GNRL-06	Vendor Contact Title	See GNRL-07 for Instructure's contact information.																							
GNRL-07	Vendor Contact Email	"Please reach out to your designated Customer Success Manager or Sales representative.
 For new clients, contact info@instructure.com"																							
GNRL-08	Vendor Contact Phone Number	"For existing customers, please reach out to your Customer Success Manager or Sales representative. For new clients:
 • North America and Latin America: 1.800.203.6755
 • Europe, Middle East, and Africa: 0800 358 4330
 • Australia and Asia Pacific: 1300 956 763 (+61 2 8038 5069 for callers outside Australia)
 • Hong Kong: 800 906 129"																							
GNRL-09	Vendor Data Zone	"Instructure serves a broad range of data zones globally including the United States (West & East), Canada, Australia, Singapore, Dublin, and Frankfurt.		"																							
GNRL-10	Institution Data Zone	"Institutional data resides in the same region as the Institution, i.e. US K-12 school data resides in the United States."																							
GNRL-11 and GNRL-12; populated by Institution's Information Technology or Security Office																									
GNRL-11	School Organization Security Analyst/Engineer	Institution's Security Analyst/Engineer Name																							
GNRL-12	Assessment Contact	ticket#@yourdomain.edu																							
Instructions																									
Step 1: Complete each section answering each set of questions in order from top to bottom; the built-in formatting logic relies on this order. Step 2: Submit the completed K-12 Community Vendor Assessment Toolkit - Lite to the institution according to institutional procedures.																									
Documentation		Vendor Answers	Additional Information	Guidance																					
DOCU-01	Have you undergone a SSAE 18 audit?	Yes	"The Canvas LMS SOC 2 Type II audit is conducted annually in accordance with SSAE 18, and is available for review upon execution of a non-disclosure agreement. A copy of the SOC 3 report is part of the Canvas LMS Compliance Package, available at https://inst.bid. Our hosting provider is not included in our SOC audits, but does hold their own SOC 2 report."	"Provide the date of assessment and include a SOC 2 Type 2 (preferred) or SOC 3 report. If you have a SOC3 report, include a URL for the published report. Indicate if your hosting provider was the subject of the audit."																					
DOCU-02	Have you completed the Cloud Security Alliance (CSA) self assessment or CAIQ?	Yes	Instructure's CAIQ and CSA STAR Level 1 certificate are included in the Canvas LMS Compliance Package available at https://inst.bid/canvas/lms/dl. Our listing can be viewed on the CSA STAR Registry at: https://inst.bid/csa	Please include a copy with your response and include a URL for the published assessment.																					
DOCU-03	Have you received the Cloud Security Alliance STAR certification?	Yes	Instructure is CSA STAR Level 1 Self Assessed. Our listing can be viewed on the CSA STAR Registry at: https://inst.bid/csa																						
DOCU-04	"Do you conform with a specific industry standard security framework? (e.g. NIST Cybersecurity Framework, ISO 27001, etc.) Please identify which one under ""additional information"""	Yes	"Instructure holds the following certifications for Canvas LMS: SOC 2 Type II, ISO/IEC 27001, and TX-RAMP. A SOC 3 report and ISO 27001/TX-RAMP certificates are included in our Canvas LMS Compliance Package."	"Provide documentation on how your organization conforms to each framework and indicate current certification levels, where appropriate."																					
DOCU-05	Are you compliant with FISMA standards?	No	"Instructure does not currently hold an authority to operate (ATO) from an authorizing Agency, however, we do follow NIST's 800-53 suite of controls as a guide to securing Instructure services as applicable and relevant. Instructure also follows information security best practices as set forth by the AICPA's Trust Service Principles and Criteria.

Additionally, we use Amazon Web Services (AWS) to host our services, and AWS has received authorization from the U.S. General Services Administration to operate at the FISMA Moderate level, and is also the platform for applications with Authorities to Operate (ATOs) under the Defense Information Assurance Certification and Accreditation Program (DIACAP), which has since been replaced by NIST/FISMA. AWS will continue to obtain the appropriate security certifications and conduct audits to demonstrate the security of our infrastructure and services."	Describe any plans to become FISMA compliant.																					
DOCU-06	Would you sign the Student Data Privacy Consortium statement for the state in which our district is located? (https://sdpc.a4l.org/) 	Yes	"For our complete commitment to privacy, please see: https://www.instructure.com/privacy-center"	Provide your data privacy document (or a valid link to it) upon submission.																					
Company Overview		Vendor Answers	Additional Information	Guidance																					
COMP-01	"Describe your organization’s business background and ownership structure, including all parent and subsidiary relationships."	"Instructure, Inc. was founded in 2008 by two enterprising grad students with one mission: to provide an innovative, open, cloud-based teaching and learning platform for institutions and organizations that would deliver a far greater user experience than other learning management systems (LMSs) available at the time. The outcome was Canvas, a ground-breaking LMS that officially launched to market in 2011 and quickly became the fastest growing educational LMS in the US market.

From this strong foundation we developed the Instructure Learning Platform, a set of integrated teaching and learning products built on cloud technology, coupled with service offerings and a thriving partner ecosystem, that together enable the creation and exchange of innovation through our ecosystem.
Today, Instructure supports nearly 8,000 client institutions and tens of millions of users in more than 100 countries. Higher education institutions, K-12 schools, departments of education, and vocational education providers across the globe now rely on Canvas as the cornerstone of their digital education strategy. For our complete story, please visit inst.bid/story.

Instructure, Inc. is the parent company of all global subsidiaries, including:
•  Instructure Global Limited (UK)
•  Instructure Hungary Kft
•  Instructure Australia Pty Ltd
•  Instructure Brazil Ltda
•  Instructure Singapore Pte. Ltd.

The ultimate parent company of Instructure, Inc. is Instructure Holdings, Inc., a company listed on the New York Stock Exchange (stock ticker 'INST') and currently majority held by Thoma Bravo, LLC. Thoma Bravo is a leading private equity firm with a 40-year history, including over $35 billion in investor commitments, and a focus on investing in software and technology companies.

Instructure filings are available online at: https://inst.bid/investors


"		Include circumstances that may involve off-shoring or multi-national agreements.																					
COMP-02	Describe how long your organization has conducted business in this product area.	"Instructure began in 2008 by two enterprising grad students, and is the home of Canvas LMS and the Instructure Learning Platform that benefits millions of students and teachers worldwide, every single day. Since then, Instructure has grown into a company who's mission is to elevate student success, amplify the power of teachers everywhere, and inspire everyone to learn together. 
 
With our suite of products, Instructure has over 8,000 clients worldwide in over 100 different countries. We host tens of millions of users on our platform and, to date, have supported close to 6 million concurrent users on our platform. For our complete story, please visit https://inst.bid/story
 "		Include the number of years and in what capacity.																					
COMP-03	Do you have existing K-12 customers?	Yes	"Instructure has over 4,000 K-12 customers with ~97% customer satisfaction and a vibrant user community. Our customers include notable institutions such as Broward County Florida, Knox County Schools, Orange County Public Schools, and New Caney ISD. For references and contact infomation, please reach out to info@instructure.com."	"Provide a list of K-12 Education references, with contact information."																					
COMP-04	Have you had a significant cybersecurity incident that has disrupted availability for longer than 8 hours? 	No																							
COMP-05	"Have you had a security event in the last 5 years that impacted privacy, operations, data, customers, what steps did you take to handle the incident? "	No	Instructure has not had a data breach event to date.																						
COMP-06	Do you have a formal risk management and cybersecurity program in place?	Yes	"Instructure has a formal risk management and  information security program that runs on a continuous, PDCA-cycle. It was created based on guidance provided by ISO/IEC 27000:2018 and controls described in ISO/IEC 27001:2013, and is managed by Instructure's Chief Information Security and Privacy Officer. The program is attested to by a number of current security certifications including ISO 27001, SOC 2, SOC 3, TX-RAMP, UK Cyber Essentials Plus, PCI DSS SAQ D and Attestation of Compliance."	Decribe your risk management and cybersecurity program.																					
COMP-07	"If applicable, do you have dedicated customer support and product management? "	Yes	"The Canvas LMS and other Canvas products are supported by over 700 staff in various Customer Success roles across the globe (Canvas Support, Customer Success Managers, and Implementation Consultants)."	Please provide a copy of your MSA or SLA that describes your support model.	APPL-04																				
COMP-08	"If applicable, do you have dedicated software and systems development teams? "	Yes	"Our software and system development team includes over 300 development engineers, and over 100 product management staff members spanning two global regions. Our engineers are organized into five teams including: Core Development, Mobile Management, Quality Assurance, Operations, and IT. Our product management staff are broken out into Product Management, User Experience, and Research and Education teams."	Please provide a copy of your MSA or SLA that describes your development model.																					
COMP-09	Use this area to share information about your environment that will assist those who are assessing your company data security program.	" 
Instructure has a software development lifecycle (SDLC) that incorporates secure coding practices and controls. _All code goes through a developer peer-review process before it is merged into the code base repository. The code review includes security auditing based on the Open Web Application Security Project (OWASP) secure coding and code review documents (including the OWASP Top Ten) and other community sources on best security practices.
 
Instructure regularly performs vulnerability scans using a number of internal and external tools and techniques and we publicly publish the results annually of our third-party bug bountry program because we believe that being open about all things - security included - enables us to build the best possible product for our customers. The most recent report is part of the Canvas LMS Compliance Package.
 
In addition to this, the Amazon Web Services infrastructure on which Canvas is hosted has a variety of formal accreditations. Some of the many certifications include:
 
DoD SRG • FedRAMP • FIPS • IRAP • ISO 9001 • ISO 27001 • ISO 27017 • ISO 27018 • MLPS Level 3 • MTCS • PCI DSS Level 1 • SEC Rule 17-a-4(f) • SOC 1 • SOC 2 • SOC 3 • UK Cyber Essentials Plus 
 
Architecture, business continuity, and security white papers are also available in the Canvas LMS Compliance package at https://inst.bid/canvas/lms/dl	"		Share any details that would help information security analysts assess your product.	APPL-05																				
Application/Service Security		Vendor Answers	Additional Information	Guidance	APPL-08																				
HLAP-01	"Does you system support various permission levels (for example, role based access control) for end users?"	Yes	"Canvas LMS uses context-aware RBAC. Canvas administrators can create and customize bespoke user roles such as Administrators, Teachers, and TAs, based on their institution’s structure. Canvas administrators have over 170 granular permissions to choose from for these roles. Users are either granted account level rights and permissions (e.g. admins) or specific assigned course level roles (e.g. teacher, student, TA, etc.). Depending on their role, the user can have varying scopes of access based on the principle of least privilege. Users may hold multiple different roles (e.g. a student in one course and a teacher in another) without any escalation of privilege between those separate roles. There is also no requirement for users to have separate logins for their respective roles. User roles can be updated by Canvas administrators at any time, making role maintenance quick and efficient."	Please describe your end user permission levels.	APPL-01																				
HLAP-02	Do you enforce additional security controls for privileged access users (e.g. system administrators)? 	Yes	Canvas Administrators can be required to use MFA. Canvas LMS Multi-factor authentication (MFA) is compatible with any MFA third-party provider that uses Time-based One-time Passwords (TOTP).	Please describe security controls for privleged access users.	APPL-02																				
HLAP-03	Can employees access protected or sensitive data remotely?	Yes	"Instructure's administrators are required to use a combination of password, MFA, VPN and Keys (where applicable) for privileged access. Instructure’s Operations team controls generation and installation of keys for said employees. An automated configuration management system installs employee public keys on a per-server basis based on need. This same configuration process automatically revokes keys globally when necessary."	Please describe controls in place to protect data in remote access scenarios.	APPL-03																				
HLAP-04	Is an audit log of access maintained by the system?	Yes	"All system and security logs are kept for at least one year, stored immutably and securely in our SIEM. Activity logs related to a specific customer are also available for at least one year. Furthermore, cloud workload monitoring solutions are deployed on all Canvas instances, which collect event data from instances and centrally store them. Regardless, all logs are stored on encrypted volumes within Amazon Web Services. 30 days of security logs remain readily accessible for our Security team to monitor and analyze."	Please describe how frequently audit logs are reviewed and audited.																					
HLAP-05	"If necessary would you be willing to share systems schematics, diagrams, data flow diagrams, etc. ? "	Yes	The Canvas LMS Architecture Paper is included in the Canvas LMS Compliance Package which contains an application architecture diagram.	Provide a reference to the requested documents or provide them when submitting this fully-populated K-12CVAT.	APPL-04																				
HLAP-06	Has your system been tested for input validation errors and do you have appropriate error messaging? 	Yes	"Where specific data input is required, such as a date, word, or number, Canvas is capable of validating the data. Error messages related to the discrepancy will be displayed for the user. Canvas is built to be simple and give users all the resources they need to navigate the system efficiently. For added security, Canvas automatically sanitizes potentially malicious inputs from fields (such as scripts). This helps to protect Canvas from potential attacks, including SQL injection and cross-site scripting (XSS)."	Provide a reference to documentation of your data input validation and error messaging capabilities.	APPL-05																				
HLAP-07	Is district data appropriately segmented and secured from other organization's data or access and can you demonstrate through reports? 	Yes	"Canvas LMS is a multi-tenant Software as a Service (SaaS). Separation of tenants is accomplished via logical separation in what is natively multi-tenant software. Customer data is segregated via database partitioning. This partitioning is based on real-world aspect of the data (e.g. segmented by customer) and data cannot leak from one partition to another, nor can clients gain access to data in another partition as the method of inferring the client partition is accomplished after authentication. As client credentials are only valid for a single account, and therefore partition, user authentication is intrinsically tied to the partition identity. Validation of segregated client data occurs during weekly disaster recovery testing."	Describe your multi tenancy security practices.	APPL-06																				
HLAP-08	Do you have a quality multi tenancy environment with good reporting? 	Yes	"Instructure’s product family, including our flagship Canvas LMS, is hosted in the cloud by Instructure and delivered over the internet through the world's most trusted public cloud provider, Amazon Web Services (AWS). The basic building blocks of AWS include services such as Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2), Elastic Load Balancing (ELB), Auto Scaling Groups (ASG), Simple Storage Service (S3), Elastic Block Store (EBS), Virtual Private Cloud (VPC), Simple Email Service (SES), and Identity and Access Management (IAM). We also use advanced AWS platform capabilities including Amazon Kinesis, AWS Lambda, AWS Fargate, AWS Elastic Kubernetes Service (“EKS”), and Amazon Relational Database Services (“RDS”). Instructure’s products are designed to make full use of the real-time redundancy and capacity capabilities offered by AWS, running across multiple availability zones in regions throughout the world. Primary storage is provided by Amazon S3, which is designed for durability exceeding 99.99999999%."	Describe your multi tenancy environment and reporting practices.	APPL-06																				
"Authentication, Authorization, and Accounting"		Vendor Answers	Additional Information	Guidance																					
HLAA-01	Do you have strong authentication in place including MFA and additional controls for privileged access accounts?	Yes	Local authentication can be used for both users and administrators. It can also be used concurrently with any of the supported external identity providers (IdPs). MFA can be enabled.	Describe your authentication controls.	AAAI-01																				
HLAA-02	"Does your web-based interface support authentication, including standards-based single-sign-on? (e.g. SAMAL, OAuth, ClassLink, etc.)"	Yes	"Canvas LMS has a number of integrations with external identity providers (IdPs) for centralized identity management and delegated authentication, including:
 _ Microsoft (Active Directory, Azure AD)
 _ Central Authentication Service (CAS)
 _ Clever
 _ OAuth
 _ Security Assertion Markup Language (SAML) 2.0
 _ Shibboleth
 
Documentation for creating and adding authentication providers is available in the Authentication Providers API https://canvas.instructure.com/doc/api/authentication_providers.html"	Describe or provide a reference to the supported types of authentication.	AAAI-05																				
HLAA-03	"Does the system (servers/infrastructure) support external authentication services (e.g. Active Directory, LDAP) in place of local authentication?"	Yes	Please see HLAA-02	Describe all authentication services supported by the system.	AAAI-12																				
HLAA-04	Do K-12 district staff have access to audit logs that allow them to see actions and activities taken by their users?	Yes	"Canvas logs all activity that takes place on the platform. Any action that is taken within the Canvas interface is logged - including administrator actions - and accessible by administrators using a variety of tools. Logs are available in a readable format, whether through the Canvas interface, exportable CSV files, or JSON via the API."	 Provide a description of logging capabilities.	AAAI-15																				
Business Continuity Plan		Vendor Answers	Additional Information	Guidance	BCPL-06																				
HLBC-01	Do you have a documented Business Continuity Plan (BCP)?	Yes	"Instructure has a Business Continuity and Disaster Recovery plan which is reviewed annually and supported by the Executive Leadership Team, Security Team, and Engineering Team. An overview of the plans are available in our Compliance Packages available at: https://inst.bid or https://www.instructure.com/trust-center"	Provide a copy of your BCP along with this document (link or attached).	QUAL-04																				
HLBC-02	Is there a documented communication plan in your BCP for impacted clients?	Yes	"Impacted clients are notified in three (3) stages of a disaster:
 _ Disaster Declaration: Impacted customers and business partners will be notified immediately if a disaster is declared. The notification will include a description of the event, the effect to the service, and any potential impact to data.
 _ Updates throughout Execution Phase: Impacted customers and business partners will be kept up to date throughout the disaster recovery process via phone, messaging, and/or email. We will also post official status updates on status.instructure.com
 _ Completion of Recovery: Once recovery is complete and services have resumed, our customer notifications will include general information about the steps taken to recovery, and any data that may have been impacted. If the recovery is partial and the service is still in a degraded state, notifications will include an estimate of how long the degradation will continue.
 
If the primary contact(s) for disaster recovery (nominated by the customer) is unavailable, we will notify the alternative contact (also nominated by the customer). If, for any reason, we are unable to contact the customer’s primary and alternative contacts, we will endeavor to make contact with other representatives of the customer’s organization.
 
 Instructure's Business Continuity white paper is part of the Canvas LMS Compliance Package."	Summarize your documented communication plan contained in your BCP.	BCPL-05																				
HLBC-03	Are all components of the BCP reviewed at least annually and updated as needed to reflect change? 	Yes	"Instructure's BCP component review strategy consists of a ladder framework to provide consistent, predictable, and resilient components appropriate for all our products and services based on the required level of the relevant component. Components included in our BCP are categorized into groups, each with an owner responsible for reviewing the overall service BCP health at least annually."	Describe your BCP component review strategy.	BCPL-06																				
HLBC-04	Does your organization regularly test the failover or recovery of production environment for the purposes of BCP and continuity? 	Yes	"As part of Instructure's annual business continuity tabletop testing, use cases can include events that affect remote employees, Instructure office relocation, and communication procedures.

We also frequently test our ability to restore from backup as part of our regular release cycle, as non-production sites are populated from production backups. For example, Canvas LMS non-production (beta) instance(s) are restored each week from production backup data, thus testing our ability to recover from data loss each and every week (verifiable in a client’s own instance)."	State the date of your last failover or recovery test.	BCPL-11																				
Change Management		Vendor Answers	Additional Information	Guidance																					
HLCH-01	Do you have a documented and currently followed change management process (CMP) for standard and emergency changes? 	Yes	"A documented change management process is in place, which is in line with SOC 2 Type II standards. A copy of Instructure's SOC 2 Type II report is available under mutual NDA. A SOC 3 report is included in the Canvas Compliance Package."	Summarize your current change management process.	CHNG-01																				
HLCH-02	Will the district be notified of  changes to your environment that could impact the district's security posture or service availability?	Yes	"Instructure emails detailed release notes to our customer’s administrators in advance of the release dates describing the new features, modified features, and/or bug fixes. Any major changes which may impact an institution's security posture will also be communicated via this method. The update/upgrade release notes are available to all Canvas LMS users at inst.bid/canvas/lms/releases"	State how and when the district will be notified of major changes to your environment.	CHNG-03																				
HLCH-03	"Do you have policy and procedure, currently implemented, guiding how known vulnerabilities and zero day attack risks are mitigated until patches are available and applied?"	Yes	"Instructure maintains a Vulneribility Management Policy which is reviewed annually and inline with ISO 27001 and SOC 2 standards. We assess security risks based on two factors: Impact (perceived, calculated, or actual impact that might occur if the identified vulnerability is exploited) and likelihood (probability of the vulnerability being exploited). These two factors allow us to categorize the severity of issues. Our vulnerability remediation timelines are as follows:
 • Critical: ASAP (within commercially reasonable timeframe, usually 24 hours)
 • High: Within 30 days
 • Moderate: Within 90 days
 • Low: Within 180 days"	Summarize the policy and procedure(s) guiding risk mitigation practices before critical patches can be applied.	CHNG-13																				
Data		Vendor Answers	Additional Information	Guidance																					
HLDA-01	Do you  logically separate institution's data from that of other customers?	Yes	"Customer data is segregated via database partitioning. This partitioning is based on real-world aspect of the data (e.g. segmented by customer) and data cannot leak from one partition to another, nor can clients gain access to data in another partition as the method of inferring the client partition is accomplished after authentication. As client credentials are only valid for a single account, and therefore partition, user authentication is intrinsically tied to the partition identity."	Describe or provide a reference to how institution data is logically separated from that of other customers.	DATA-01																				
HLDA-02	Is sensitive data encrypted in transport? (e.g. system-to-client)	Yes	"All data is encrypted in transport. Inbound and outbound traffic is encrypted using TLS 1.2 or higher forward-secrecy-compliant ciphers whenever possible (e.g. ECDHE-ECDSA-AES128-GCM-SHA256) to ensure that all sensitive, personally-identifiable information, credentials exchange, page requests, and session data is secure. The acceptable cipher list is constantly maintained to ensure that no vulnerabilities are present."	Summarize your transport encryption strategy and include the level of encryption currently in use.	DATA-03																				
HLDA-03	"Is sensitive data encrypted in storage (e.g. disk encryption, at-rest)?"	Yes	All data is stored at rest within encrypted volumes using AES 256.	Summarize your data encryption strategy.	DATA-04																				
HLDA-04	"Do backups containing institution data ever leave the United States, either physically or via network routing?"	No	"For United States customers, data does not leave the United States."		DATA-23																				
HLDA-05	"Do you have a media handling process, that is documented and currently implemented, including end-of-life, repurposing, and data sanitization procedures?"	Yes	"When storage devices have reached end of life,  procedures include a decommissioning process that is designed to prevent customer data from being exposed to unauthorized individuals. Techniques detailed in DoD 5220.22-M (“National Industrial Security Program Operating Manual “) or NIST SP 800-88 (“Guidelines for Media Sanitization”) are used to destroy data as part of the decommissioning process. If a hardware device is unable to be decommissioned using these procedures, the device will be degaussed or physically destroyed in accordance with industry-standard practices."	Provide details of these procedures (link or attached).	DATA-24																				
HLDA-06	Is any institution data visible in system administration modules/tools?	No	Customer data is only visible in Instructure's support tools for providing support to Institutions when requsted. This does not include Instructure's system administration tools or modules.		DATA-29																				
Database		Vendor Answers	Additional Information	Guidance																					
HLDB-01	Does the database implement encryption of specified data elements in storage consistent with current encryption standards?	Yes	All database data is encrypted at rest (disk encryption).	Describe the type of encryption that is supported including the versions/levels of encryption you support. 	DBAS-01																				
Datacenter		Vendor Answers	Additional Information	Guidance	DCTR-02																				
HLDC-01	Will any institution data leave the United States?	No	"For United States customers, data does not leave the United States."		DCTR-09																				
HLDC-02	Does your company own the physical data center where the institution's data will reside?	No	"
Instructure uses Amazon Web Services (AWS) data centers, which are staffed 24x7x365 by professional security staff, as well as monitored by video surveillance, intrusion detection systems, and other electronic means. The data centers are operated in compliance with ISO/IEC 27001:2013 standards. Further detail on AWS data center security can be found at: https://aws.amazon.com/compliance/data-center/controls/

Customer data is segregated via database partitioning. This partitioning is based on real-world aspect of the data (e.g. segmented by customer) and data cannot leak from one partition to another, nor can clients gain access to data in another partition as the method of inferring the client partition is accomplished after authentication."	"Provide a detailed description of where the institution's data will reside. If using a public cloud provider, please describe how you handle data segregation."	DCTR-01																				
HLDC-03	Does the hosting provider have a SOC 2 Type 2 report available?	Yes	Amazon Web Services infrastructure on which Canvas is hosted has a variety of formal accreditations including a SOC 2 report. This report is available by request from AWS directly via https://aws.amazon.com/artifact/getting-started/ 	Obtain the report if possible and add it to your submission.	DCTR-02																				
Disaster Recovery Plan		Vendor Answers	Additional Information	Guidance	DRPL-13																				
HLDR-01	Do you have a Disaster Recovery Plan (DRP)?	Yes	"Instructure has a documented Disaster Recovery plan. The plan is tested at least annually in full, and we frequently test our ability to restore from backup as part of our regular release cycle, as non-production sites are populated from production backups.

Please see our Instructure Business Continuity and Disaster Recovery Paper which is part of the Canvas LMS Compliance Package available at https://inst.bid"	Describe or provide a reference to your Disaster Recovery Plan (DRP).	QUAL-05																				
HLDR-02	Are any disaster recovery locations outside the institution's of the United States?	No	"Disaster Recovery locations reside within the Institution's Data Zone and geographical location. Customer data is backed up to different AWS Availability Zones (separate data centers) within their geographical region. For privacy and data sovereignty, data never leaves a customer's geographical region and all backups and disaster recovery measures stay in-region."		DRPL-04																				
HLDR-03	Are all components of the DRP reviewed at least annually and updated as needed to reflect change? 	Yes	Instructure's Disaster Recovery Plan is owned by the Security and Compliance Team and reviewed annually. It is provided to stakeholders for review and supported by both the Executive Leadership Team and Engineering Team.	Summarize your DRP review and update processes and/or procedures.	DRPL-12																				
"Firewalls, IDS, IPS, and Networking"		Vendor Answers	Additional Information	Guidance																					
HLFI-01	Are you utilizing a web application firewall (WAF) and/or a stateful packet inspection (SPI) firewall?	Yes	"Canvas utilizes AWS Security Groups which perform stateful packet inspection on all rules. The AWS SG firewall keeps track of the state of network connections (such as TCP streams, UDP communication) traveling across it."	Describe the currently implemented WAF.	FIDP-01	FIDP-02																			
HLFI-02	Do you have a documented policy for firewall change requests?	Yes	"Firewall changes on our cloud infrastructure configuration occur by authorized Instructure Security Team administrators. These configurations are managed in source control and records of modifications are under change control. Where technically feasible, baseline configurations are aligned to best practices. Multi-factor authentication is required."	Describe your documented firewall change request policy.	FIDP-04																				
HLFI-03	"Do you have automated  threat monitoring and notification systems enabled? (for example, SEIM, EDPM, etc.)"	Yes	"Instructure utilizes AWS’ Security Hub, a cloud security posture management (CSPM) service, that performs security best practice checks, aggregates alerts, and enables automated remediation. We also utilise AWS Inspector for vulnerability scanning, which scans all our instances in near-real time for vulnerabilities and any unintended network exposure. This gives us a much shorter Mean Time to Remediate (MTTR) and expedites vulnerability routing using multiple sources of vulnerability intelligence and current common vulnerabilities and exposures (CVE) information."	Describe your threat monitoring and notification capability.	FIDP-09																				
HLFI-04	Is there a 24x7x365 monitoring and response process in place for intrusions?	Yes	Instructure leverages AWS's GuardDuty service (including Threat Intelligence) to continuously monitor for malicious or unauthorized behavior. It monitors for activity such as unusual API calls or potentially unauthorized deployments that indicate a possible account compromise. GuardDuty also detects potentially compromised instances or reconnaissance by attackers. Any alerts generated by GuardDuty are forwarded to Instructure's Security Team for a 24x7x365 response.	Provide a brief summary of this activity including expected response time.																					
Physical Security		Vendor Answers	Additional Information	Guidance																					
HLPH-01	Does your organization have physical security controls and policies in place?	Yes	"At Instructure offices, where no client data is stored, electronic surveillance, physical authentication mechanisms, and reception desks are implemented. AWS physical security controls include but are not limited to perimeter controls such as fencing, walls, security staff, video surveillance, intrusion detection systems and other electronic means. Refer to ISO 27001 standards; Annex A, domain 11 for further information. AWS has been validated and certified by an independent auditor to confirm alignment with ISO 27001 certification standard."	Provide a copy of your physical security controls and policies along with this document (link or attached).	PHYS-01																				
HLPH-02	"Are employees allowed to access or transport customer data, copy or store customer data on personally owned devices, or physically remove data from the protected infrastructure of your organization? "	No	"Instructure maintains data classification, protection, and handling procedures throughout its lifecycle based on our Data Classification, Handling, and Encryption Policy. This policy is reviewed at least annually and approved by relevant stakeholders and the Information Security Team. The purpose of the policy is to provide Instructure personnel with guiding practices and principles for the classification and appropriate handling of all data. As part of this policy, customer data is not to be removed by Instructure personnel from Instructure systems. Instructure is also ISO 27001:2013 certified and the information classification, labeling and handling is covered under the ISO 27001:2013 standard."		PPPR-08																				
"Policies, Procedures, and Processes"		Vendor Answers	Additional Information	Guidance	PPPR-11																				
HLPP-01	"Can you share the organization chart, mission statement, and policies for your information security unit?"	Yes	"Instructure has a dedicated security function, which includes a team of security engineers, compliance managers, and a Chief Information Security and Privacy Officer (CISPO) who is responsible for overseeing the security program. The security team consists of members with years of security experience, degrees in security systems, certifications in various security domains, and participation in security-related conferences and trainings. Security isn’t treated as the sole responsibility of our Security team though - we ensure our employees understand that security is everyone’s responsibility. All members of Product and Engineering teams are thoroughly trained on secure coding practices, testing, and conducting thorough peer reviews with a focus on security. Likewise, every employee receives regular training on security and privacy as it pertains to their work in protecting our customers."	Provide a links to these documents in Additional Information or attach them with your submission or indicate if access to these documents requires an NDA.	PPPR-18																				
HLPP-02	Are information security principles designed into the product lifecycle (e.g. are you incorporating and upgrading security as an essential design element)?	Yes	Instructure has a software development lifecycle (SDLC) that incorporates secure coding practices and controls. All code goes through a developer peer-review process before it is merged into the code base repository. The code review includes security auditing based on the Open Web Application Security Project (OWASP) secure coding and code review documents (including the OWASP Top Ten) and other community sources on best security practices.	Summarize the information security principles designed into the product lifecycle.	PPPR-08																				
HLPP-03	"Do you have a formal, documented incident response plan that covers physical and cyber incident response and defined severity levels?"	Yes	"At the first sign of an incident, Instructure's Chief Information Security and Privacy Officer will assemble an internal incident response team. The composition and charge of the team will depend upon the type of breach and resulting data exposure. The team conducts a preliminary assessment to help develop a tailored response. Once the incident is contained, this team will also evaluate changes in processes, systems and/or policies to prevent a repeat event.

"	Summarize your formal incident response plan.	PPPR-10																				
HLPP-04	Do you have a documented information security policy?	Yes	"Instructure maintains a documented information security policy which is reviewed at least annually and approved by relevant stakeholders and the Information Security Team. The purpose of the policy is to describe Instructure's overarching security policy for protecting and securing Instructure's assets. Assets include, but are not limited to data, people, buildings, systems, applications, mechanisms, processes, and use of third parties. The policy also instantiates Instructure’s security program, which is a systematic approach to establishing, implementing, operating, monitoring, reviewing, maintaining, and improving Instructure's security program (and supporting processes). Instructure's security policy and program are created based on guidance provided by ISO/IEC 27000:2018 and controls described in ISO/IEC 27001:2013. Instructure is ISO 27001:2013 certified and maintains a SOC 2 Type II report for Canvas LMS."	Provide a reference to your information security policy or submit documentation with this fully-populated K-12CVAT-Lite.	PPPR-16																				
Systems Management & Configuration		Vendor Answers	Additional Information	Guidance																					
HLSY-01	"Do you employ network and administrative segmentation in the management of this service? (for example, systems supporting the service managed via a separate management network, separate administrative controls and access, etc.)"	Yes	"Canvas LMS is delievered via an AWS VPC (Virtual Private Cloud) which securely resides within the AWS network, separate from Instructure's Enterprise and Corporate IT systems. "	Provide a brief description of how this is implemented.	SYST-01																				
HLSY-02	"Do you have standard hardened configurations for severs, appliances and mobile devices?"	Yes	"Instructure has a standard hardening policy for all servers, applicances and desktop/mobile devices. Hardening includes processes such as disabling unused ports/services, disabling root access, ensuring base images are updated with the latest security updates, configuring firewall ingress and egress rules, etc."	Summarize your systems management and configuration strategy.																					
HLSY-03	Do you encrypt company owned mobile devices?	Yes	"Company-owned mobile devices are fully encrypted. Instructure's DM platforms (Jamf & Azure), can track, manage, and secure Instructure owned devices remotely on demand."	Summarize your systems management and configuration strategy.	VULN-03																				
Vulnerability Scanning		Vendor Answers	Additional Information	Guidance																					
HLVU-01	Have your systems and applications had a third party security assessment completed in the last year?	Yes	"Instructure engages with a number of third party security testers to annually penetration test its products. The last third party test for Canvas LMS was completed in February 2024.

In addition to third party annual penetration testing, Instructure conducts a year-round bug bounty programusing a third party security specialist. On an annual basis, an output of all bugs accepted by the program are aggregated into Instructure's Bug Bounty Report and provided to customers both publicly on our website and directly when requested. Instructure publishes these results because we are anchored in openness and transparency to our customers. The Bug Bounty Report is made available at https://inst.bid as part of the Canvas Compliance Package."	"Provide the results with this document (link or attached), if possible. State the date of the last completed third party security assessment."	VULN05	VULN-02																			
HLVU-02	Are your applications scanned for vulnerabilities [that are remediated]?                            	Yes	"Instructure’s security team conducts regular vulnerability scans of both our non-public assets and our production application environments, using a number of internal and external tools, custom scripts, and monitoring agents to watch for open source libraries and dependancy vulnerabilities.

The types of vulnerability scans we conduct include (but not limited to):

•  Software Composition Analysis (Open Source Vulnerabilities) 
•  Dynamic Application Security Scans 
•  Cloud Configurations
•  Secrets Exposures
•  OS Vulnerabilities

Any detected vulnerbilities are remediated to our remediation timelines as per policy."	Provide a brief description and include the frequency with which scanning occurs.																					
HLVU-03	Are your systems scanned for vulnerabilities [that are remediated]?                            	Yes	Please see HLVU-02	Provide a brief description and include the frequence with which scanning occurs.																					
	https://www.cosn.org/edtech-topics/cybersecurity/																								
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									